<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Book 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="book-3" epub:type="book">
			<h2><a name="book3" id="book3"></a>BOOK THREE</h2>

<h3>THE BLACK STAR PASSES</h3>

<h4>PROLOGUE</h4>

<p>Taj Lamor gazed steadily down at the vast dim bulk of the ancient
city spread out beneath him. In the feeble light of the stars its mighty
masses of up-flung metal buildings loomed strangely, like the shells of
some vast race of crustacea, long extinct. Slowly he turned, gazing now
out across the great plaza, where rested long rows of slender, yet
mighty ships. Thoughtfully he stared at their dim, half-seen shapes.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor was not human. Though he was humanoid, Earth had never seen
creatures just like him. His seven foot high figure seemed a bit
ungainly by Terrestrial standards, and his strangely white, hairless
flesh, suggesting unbaked dough, somehow gave the impression of
near-transparency. His eyes were disproportionately large, and the black
disc of pupil in the white corneas was intensified by contrast. Yet
perhaps his race better deserved the designation <i>homo sapiens</i>
than Terrestrians do, for it was wise with the accumulated wisdom of
uncounted eons.</p>

<p>He turned to the other man in the high, cylindrical, dimly lit tower
room overlooking the dark metropolis, a man far older than Taj Lamor,
his narrow shoulders bent, and his features grayed with his years. His
single short, tight-fitting garment of black plastic marked him as one
of the Elders. The voice of Taj Lamor was vibrant with feeling:</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 146]</span></p>

<p>&#8220;Tordos Gar, at last we are ready to seek a new sun. Life for our
race!&#8221;</p>

<p>A quiet, patient, imperturbable smile appeared on the Elder's face
and the heavy lids closed over his great eyes.</p>

<p>&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said sadly, &#8220;but at what cost in tranquility!
The discord, the unrest, the awakening of unnatural ambitions&mdash;a
dreadful price to pay for a questionable gain. Too great a price, I
think.&#8221; His eyes opened, and he raised a thin hand to check the younger
man's protest. &#8220;I know&mdash;I know&mdash;in this we do not see as one.
Yet perhaps some day you will learn even as I have that to rest is
better than to engage in an endless struggle. Suns and planets die. Why
should races seek to escape the inevitable?&#8221; Tordos Gar turned slowly
away and gazed fixedly into the night sky.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor checked an impatient retort and sighed resignedly. It was
this attitude that had made his task so difficult. Decadence. A race on
an ages-long decline from vast heights of philosophical and scientific
learning. Their last external enemy had been defeated millennia in the
past; and through easy forgetfulness and lack of strife, ambition had
died. Adventure had become a meaningless word.</p>

<p>Strangely, during the last century a few men had felt the stirrings
of long-buried emotion, of ambition, of a craving for adventure. These
were throwbacks to those ancestors of the race whose science had built
their world. These men, a comparative handful, had been drawn to each
other by the unnatural ferment within them; and Taj Lamor had become
their leader. They had begun a mighty struggle against the inertia of
ages of slow decay, had begun a search for the lost secrets of a
hundred-million-year-old science.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor raised his eyes to the horizon. Through the leaping curve
of the crystal clear roof of their world glowed a blazing spot of yellow
fire. A star&mdash;the brightest object in a sky whose sun had lost its
light. A point of radiance that held the last hopes of an incredibly
ancient race.</p>

<p>The quiet voice of Tordos Gar came through the
semi<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 147]</span>darkness of the room, a pensive,
dreamlike quality in its tones.</p>

<p>&#8220;You, Taj Lamor, and those young men who have joined you in this
futile expedition do not think deeply enough. Your vision is too narrow.
You lack perspective. In your youth you cannot think on a cosmic scale.&#8221;
He paused as though in thought, and when he continued, it seemed almost
as though he were speaking to himself.</p>

<p>&#8220;In the far, dim past fifteen planets circled about a small, red sun.
They were dead worlds&mdash;or rather, worlds that had not yet lived.
Perhaps a million years passed before there moved about on three of them
the beginnings of life. Then a hundred million years passed, and those
first, crawling protoplasmic masses had become animals, and plants, and
intermediate growths. And they fought endlessly for survival. Then more
millions of years passed, and there appeared a creature which slowly
gained ascendancy over the other struggling life forms that fought for
the warmth of rays of the hot, red sun.</p>

<p>&#8220;That sun had been old, even as the age of a star is counted, before
its planets had been born, and many, many millions of years had passed
before those planets cooled, and then more eons sped by before life
appeared. Now, as life slowly forced its way upward, that sun was nearly
burned out. The animals fought, and bathed in the luxury of its rays,
for many millennia were required to produce any noticeable change in its
life-giving radiations.</p>

<p>&#8220;At last one animal gained the ascendancy. Our race. But though one
species now ruled, there was no peace. Age followed age while
semi-barbaric peoples fought among themselves. But even as they fought,
they learned.</p>

<p>&#8220;They moved from caves into structures of wood and stone&mdash;and
engineering had its beginning. With the buildings came little chemical
engines to destroy them; warfare was developing. Then came the first
crude flying-machines, using clumsy, inefficient engines. Chemical
engines! Engines so crude that one could watch the flow of their fuel!
One part in one hundred thousand million of the energy of their
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 148]</span>propellents they released to run the
engines, and they carried fuel in such vast quantities that they
staggered under its load as they left the ground! And warfare became
world-wide. After flight came other machines and other ages. Other
scientists began to have visions of the realms beyond, and they sought
to tap the vast reservoirs of Nature's energies, the energies of
matter.</p>

<p>&#8220;Other ages saw it done&mdash;a few thousand years later there passed
out into space a machine that forced its way across the void to another
planet! And the races of the three living worlds became as one&mdash;but
there was no peace.</p>

<p>&#8220;Swiftly now, science grew upon itself, building with ever faster
steps, like a crystal which, once started, forms with incalculable
speed.</p>

<p>&#8220;And while that science grew swiftly greater, other changes took
place, changes in our universe itself. Ten million years passed before
the first of those changes became important. But slowly, steadily our
atmosphere was drifting into space. Through ages this gradually became
apparent. Our worlds were losing their air and their water. One planet,
less favored than another, fought for its life, and space itself was
ablaze with the struggles of wars for survival.</p>

<p>&#8220;Again science helped us. Thousands of years before, men had learned
how to change the mass of matter into energy, but now at last the
process was reversed, and those ancestors of ours could change energy
into matter, any kind of matter they wished. Rock they took, and changed
it to energy, then that energy they transmuted to air, to water, to the
necessary metals. Their planets took a new lease of life!</p>

<p>&#8220;But even this could not continue forever. They must stop that loss
of air. The process they had developed for reformation of matter
admitted of a new use. Creation! They were now able to make new
elements, elements that had never existed in nature! They designed atoms
as, long before, their fathers had designed molecules. At last their
problem was solved. They made a new form of matter that was clearer than
any crystal, and yet stronger and tougher <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
149]</span>than any metal known. Since it held out none of the sun's
radiations, they could roof their worlds with it and keep their air
within!</p>

<p>&#8220;This was a task that could not be done in a year, nor a decade, but
all time stretched out unending before them. One by one the three
planets became tremendous, roofed-in cities. Only their vast powers,
their mighty machines made the task possible, but it was done.&#8221;</p>

<p>The droning voice of Tordos Gar ceased. Taj Lamor, who had listened
with a mixture of amusement and impatience to the recital of a history
he knew as well as the aged, garrulous narrator, waited out of the
inborn respect which every man held for the Elders. At length he
exclaimed: &#8220;I see no point&mdash;&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;But you will when I finish&mdash;or, at least, I hope you
will.&#8221; Tordos Gar's words and tone were gently reproving. He
continued quietly:</p>

<p>&#8220;Slowly the ages drifted on, each marked by greater and greater
triumphs of science. But again and again there were wars. Some there
were in which the population of a world was halved, and all space for a
billion miles about was a vast cauldron of incandescent energy in which
tremendous fleets of space ships swirled and fused like ingredients in
some cosmic brew. Forces were loosed on the three planets that sent even
their mighty masses reeling drunkenly out of their orbits, and space
itself seemed to be torn by the awful play of energies.</p>

<p>&#8220;Always peace followed&mdash;a futile peace. A few brief centuries or
a few millennia, and again war would flame. It would end, and life would
continue.</p>

<p>&#8220;But slowly there crept into the struggle a new factor, a darkening
cloud, a change that came so gradually that only the records of
instruments, made during a period of thousands of years, could show it.
Our sun had changed from bright red to a deep, sullen crimson, and ever
less and less heat poured from it. It was waning!</p>

<p>&#8220;As the fires of life died down, the people of the three worlds
joined in a conflict with the common menace,
death <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 150]</span>from the creeping cold of
space. There was no need for great haste; a sun dies slowly. Our
ancestors laid their plans and carried them out. The fifteen worlds were
encased in shells of crystal. Those that had no atmosphere were given
one. Mighty heating plants were built&mdash;furnaces that burned matter,
designed to warm a world! At last a state of stability had been reached,
for never could conditions change&mdash;it seemed. All external heat and
light came from far-off stars, the thousands of millions of suns that
would never fail.</p>

<p>&#8220;Under stress of the Great Change one scarcely noticed, yet almost
incredible, transformation had occurred. We had learned to live with
each other. We had learned to think, and enjoy thinking. As a species we
had passed from youth into maturity. Advancement did not stop; we went
on steadily toward the goal of all knowledge. At first there was an
underlying hope that we might some day, somehow, escape from these
darkened, artificial worlds of ours, but with the passing centuries this
grew very dim and at length was forgotten.</p>

<p>&#8220;Gradually as millennia passed, much ancient knowledge was also
forgotten. It was not needed. The world was unchanging, there was no
strife, and no need of strife. The fifteen worlds were warm, and
pleasant, and safe. Without fully realizing it, we had entered a period
of rest. And so the ages passed; and there were museums and libraries
and laboratories; and the machines of our ancestors did all necessary
work. So it was&mdash;until less than a generation ago. Our long lives
were pleasant, and death, when it came, was a sleep. And
then&mdash;&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;And then,&#8221; Taj Lamor interrupted, a sharp edge of
impatience in his tone, &#8220;some of us awakened from our
stupor!&#8221;</p>

<p>The Elder sighed resignedly. &#8220;You cannot see&mdash;you cannot see.
You would start that struggle all over again!&#8221; His voice continued in
what Taj Lamor thought of as a senile drone, but the younger man paid
scant attention. His eyes and thoughts were centered on that brilliant
yellow <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 151]</span>star, the brightest object in
the heavens. It was that star, noticeably brighter within a few
centuries, that had awakened a few men from their mental slumbers.</p>

<p>They were throwbacks, men who had the divine gift of curiosity; and
sparked by their will to know, they had gone to the museums and looked
carefully at the ancient directions for the use of the telectroscope,
the mighty electrically amplified vision machine, had gazed through it.
They had seen a great sun that seemed to fill all the field of the
apparatus with blazing fire. A sun to envy! Further observation had
revealed that there circled about the sun a series of planets, five,
definitely; two more, probably; and possibly two others.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor had been with that group, a young man then, scarcely more
than forty, but they had found him a leader and they had followed him as
he set about his investigation of the ancient books on astronomy.</p>

<p>How many, many hours had he studied those ancient works! How many
times had he despaired of ever learning their truths, and gone out to
the roof of the museum to stand in silent thought looking out across the
awful void to the steady flame of the yellow star! Then quietly he had
returned to his self-set task.</p>

<p>With him as teacher, others had learned, and before he was seventy
there were many men who had become true scientists, astronomers. There
was much of the ancient knowledge that these men could not understand,
for the science of a million centuries is not to be learned in a few
brief decades, but they mastered a vast amount of the forgotten
lore.</p>

<p>They knew now that the young, live sun, out there in space, was
speeding toward them, their combined velocities equalling more than 100
miles each second. And they knew that there were not seven, but nine
planets circling about that sun. There were other facts they discovered;
they found that the new sun was far larger than theirs had ever been;
indeed, it was a sun well above average in size and
bril<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 152]</span>liance. There were planets, a hot
sun&mdash;a home! Could they get there?</p>

<p>When their ancestors had tried to solve the problem of escape they
had concentrated their work on the problem of going at speeds greater
than that of light. This should be an impossibility, but the fact that
the ancients had tried it, seemed proof enough to their descendants that
it was possible, at least in theory. In the distant past they had needed
speeds exceeding that of light, for they must travel light years; but
now this sun was coming toward them, and already was less than two
hundred and fifty billion miles away!</p>

<p>They would pass that other star in about seventy years. That was
scarcely more than a third of a man's lifetime. They could make the
journey with conceivable speeds&mdash;but in that brief period they must
prepare to move!</p>

<p>The swift agitation for action had met with terrific resistance. They
were satisfied; why move?</p>

<p>But, while some men had devoted their time to arousing the people to
help, others had begun doing work that had not been done for a long,
long time. The laboratories were reopened, and workshops began humming
again. They were making things that were new once more, not merely
copying old designs.</p>

<p>Their search had been divided into sections, search for weapons with
which to defend themselves in case they were attacked, and search for
the basic principles underlying the operation of their space ships. They
had machines which they could imitate, but they did not understand them.
Success had been theirs on these quests. The third section had been less
successful. They had also been searching for secrets of the apparatus
their forefathers had used to swing the planets in their orbits, to move
worlds about at will. They had wanted to be able to take not only their
space ships, but their planets as well, when they went to settle on
these other worlds and in this other solar system.</p>

<p>But the search for this secret had remained unrewarded. The secret of
the spaceships they learned readily, and Taj Lamor had designed these
mighty ships below there with <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 153]</span>that
knowledge. Their search for weapons had been satisfied; they had found
one weapon, one of the deadliest that their ancestors had ever invented.
But the one secret in which they were most interested, the mighty force
barrage that could swing a world in its flight through space, was lost.
They could not find it.</p>

<p>They knew the principles of the driving apparatus of their ships, and
it would seem but a matter of enlargement to drive a planet as a ship,
but they knew this was impossible; the terrific forces needed would
easily be produced by their apparatus, but there was no way to apply
them to a world. If applied in any spot, the planet would be torn
asunder by the incalculable strain. They must apply the force equally to
the entire planet. Their problem was one of application of power. The
rotation of the planet made it impossible to use a series of driving
apparatus, even could these be anchored, but again the sheer immensity
of the task made it impossible.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor gazed down again at the great ships in the plaza below.
Their mighty bulks seemed to dwarf even the huge buildings about them.
Yet these ships were his&mdash;for he had learned their secrets and
designed them, and now he was to command them as they flew out across
space in that flight to the distant star.</p>

<p>He turned briefly to the Elder, Tordos Gar. &#8220;Soon we
leave,&#8221; he said, a faint edge of triumph in his voice. &#8220;We will
prove that our way is right.&#8221;</p>

<p>The old man shook his head. &#8220;You will learn&mdash;&#8221; he
began, but Taj Lamor did not want to hear.</p>

<p>He turned, passed through a doorway, and stepped into a little
torpedo-shaped car that rested on the metal roof behind him. A moment
later the little ship rose, and then slanted smoothly down over the edge
of the roof, straight for the largest of the ships below. This was the
flagship. Nearly a hundred feet greater was its diameter, and its mile
and a quarter length of gleaming metal hull gave it nearly three hundred
feet greater length than that of the ships of the line.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 154]</span></p>

<p>This expedition was an expedition of exploration. They were prepared
to meet any conditions on those other worlds&mdash;no atmosphere, no
water, no heat, or even an atmosphere of poisonous gases they could
rectify, for their transmutation apparatus would permit them to change
those gases, or modify them; they knew well how to supply heat, but they
knew too, that that sun would warm some of its planets sufficiently for
their purposes.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor sent his little machine darting through the great airlock
in the side of the gigantic interstellar ship and lowered it gently to
the floor. A man stepped forward, opened the door for the leader,
saluting him briskly as he stepped out; then the car was run swiftly
aside, to be placed with thousands of others like it. Each of these cars
was to be used by a separate investigator when they reached those other
worlds, and there were men aboard who would use them.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor made his way to a door in the side of a great metal tube
that threaded the length of the huge ship. Opening the door he sat down
in another little car that shot swiftly forward as the double door shut
softly, with a low hiss of escaping air. For moments the car sped
through the tube, then gently it slowed and came to rest opposite
another door. Again came the hissing of gas as the twin doors opened,
and Taj Lamor stepped out, now well up in the nose of the cruiser. As he
stepped out of the car the outer and inner doors closed, and, ready now
for other calls, the car remained at this station. On a ship so long,
some means of communication faster than walking was essential. This
little pneumatic railway was the solution.</p>

<p>As Taj Lamor stepped out of the tube, a half-dozen men, who had been
talking among themselves, snapped quickly to attention. Following the
plans of the long-gone armies of their ancestors, the men of the
expedition had been trained to strict discipline; and Taj Lamor was
their technical leader and the nominal Commander-in-Chief, although
another man, Kornal Sorul, was their actual commander.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor proceeded at once to the Staff Cabin in
the <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 155]</span>very nose of the great ship. Just
above him there was another room, walled on all sides by that clear,
glass-like material, the control cabin. Here the pilot sat, directing
the motions of the mighty ship of space.</p>

<p>Taj Lamor pushed a small button on his desk and in a moment a gray
disc before him glowed dimly, then flashed into life and full, natural
color. As though looking through a glass porthole, Taj Lamor saw the
interior of the Communications Room. The Communications Officer was
gazing at a similar disc in which Taj Lamor's features appeared.</p>

<p>&#8220;Have they reported from Ohmur, Lorsand, and Throlus, yet, Morlus
Tal?&#8221; asked the commander.</p>

<p>&#8220;They are reporting now, Taj Lamor, and we will be ready within two
and one half minutes. The plans are as before; we are to proceed
directly toward the Yellow Star, meeting at Point 71?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;The plans are as before. Start when ready.&#8221;</p>

<p>The disc faded, the colors died, and it was gray again. Taj Lamor
pulled another small lever on the panel before him, and the disc
changed, glowed, and was steady; and now he saw the preparations for
departure, as from an eye on the top of the great ship. Men streamed
swiftly in ordered columns all about and into the huge vessels. In an
incredibly short time they were in, and the great doors closed behind
them. Suddenly there came a low, dull hum through the disc, and the
sound mounted quickly, till all the world seemed humming to that dull
note. The warning!</p>

<p>Abruptly the city around him seemed to blaze in a riot of colored
light! The mighty towering bulks of the huge metal buildings were
polished and bright, and now, as the millions of lights, every color of
the spectrum, flashed over all the city from small machines in the air,
on the ground, in windows, their great metal walls glistening with a
riot of flowing color. Then there was a trembling through all the frame
of the mighty ship. In a moment it was gone, and the titanic mass of
glistening metal rose smoothly, quickly to the great roof of their world
above them. On an even keel it climbed straight up, then suddenly it
leaped forward <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 156]</span>like some great bird
of prey sighting its victim. The ground beneath sped swiftly away, and
behind it there came a long line of ships, quickly finding their
position in the formation. They were heading toward the giant airlock
that would let them out into space. There was but one lock large enough
to permit so huge a ship to pass out, and they must circle half their
world to reach it.</p>

<p>On three other worlds there were other giant ships racing thus to
meet beyond their solar system. There were fifty ships coming from each
planet; two hundred mighty ships in all made up this Armada of Space,
two hundred gargantuan interstellar cruisers.</p>

<p>One by one the giant ships passed through the airlock and out into
space. Here they quickly reformed as they moved off together, each ship
falling into its place in the mighty cone formation, with the flagship
of Taj Lamor at the head. On they rushed through space, their speed ever
mounting. Suddenly there seemed to leap out of nowhere another mass of
shining machines that flew swiftly beside them. Like some strange,
shining ghosts, these ships seemed to materialize instantly beside and
behind their fleet. They fell in quickly in their allotted position
behind the Flagship's squadron. One&mdash;two more fleets appeared thus
suddenly in the dark, and together the ships were flashing on through
space to their goal of glowing fire ahead!</p>

<p>Hour after hour, day after day the ships flashed on through the awful
void, the utter silence relieved by the communications between
themselves and the slowly weakening communications from the far-off home
planets.</p>

<p>But as those signals from home grew steadily weaker, the sun before
them grew steadily larger. At last the men began to feel the heat of
those rays, to realize the energy that that mighty sea of flame poured
forth into space, and steadily they watched it grow nearer.</p>

<p>Then came a day when they could make out clearly the dim bulk of a
planet before them, and for long hours they slowed down the flying speed
of the ships. They had mapped the system they were approaching; there
were nine planets of <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 157]</span>varying sizes,
some on the near and some on the far side of the sun. There were but
three on the near side; one that seemed the outermost of the planets,
about 35,000 miles in diameter, was directly in their path, while there
were two more much nearer the sun, about 100,000,000 and 70,000,000
miles distant from it, each about seven to eight thousand miles in
diameter, but they were on opposite sides of the sun. These more
inviting and more accessible worlds were numbers two and three of the
planetary system. It was decided to split the expedition into two parts;
one part was to go to planet two, and the other to three. Taj Lamor was
to lead his group of a hundred ships to the nearer planet at once.</p>

<p>In a very brief time the great ships slanted down over what seemed to
be a mighty globe of water. They were well in the northern hemisphere,
and they had come near the planet first over a vast stretch of rolling
ocean. The men had looked in wonder at such vast quantities of the
fluid. To them it was a precious liquid, that must be made artificially,
and was to be conserved, yet here they saw such vast quantities of
natural water as seemed impossible. Still, their ancient books had told
of such things, and of other strange things, things that must have been
wondrously beautiful, though they were so old now, these records, that
they were regarded largely as myths.</p>

<p>Yet here were the strange proofs! They saw great masses of fleecy
water vapor, huge billowy things that seemed solid, but were blown
lightly in the wind. And natural air! The atmosphere extended for
hundreds of miles off into space; and now, as they came closer to the
surface of this world the air was dense, and the sky above them was a
beautiful blue, not black, even where there were stars. The great sun,
so brilliantly incandescent when seen from space, and now a glowing
globe of reddish-yellow.</p>

<p>And as they came near land, they looked in wonder at mighty masses of
rock and soil that threw their shaggy heads high above the surrounding
terrain, huge masses that rose high, like waves in the water, till they
towered in <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 158]</span>solemn grandeur miles into
the air! What a sight for these men of a world so old that age long
erosion had washed away the last traces of hills, and filled in all of
the valleys!</p>

<p>In awe they looked down at the mighty rock masses, as they swung low
over the mountains, gazing in wonder at the green masses of the strange
vegetation; strange, indeed, for they for uncounted ages had grown only
mushroom-like cellulose products, and these mainly for ornament, for all
their food was artificially made in huge factories.</p>

<p>Then they came over a little mountain lake, a body of water scarcely
large enough to berth one of their huge ships, but high in the clear air
of the mountains, fed by the melting of eternal snows. It was a
magnificent sapphire in a setting green as emerald, a sparkling lake of
clear water, deep as the sea, high in a cleft in the mountains.</p>

<p>In wonder the men looked down at these strange sights. What a
marvelous home!</p>

<p>Steadily the great machines proceeded, and at last the end of the
giant mountain was reached, and they came to a great plain. But that
plain was strangely marked off with squares, as regularly as though
plotted with a draftsman's square. This world must be inhabited by
intelligent beings!</p>

<p>Suddenly Taj Lamor saw strange specks off in the far horizon to the
south, specks that seemed to grow in size with terrific velocity; these
must be ships, the ships of these people, coming to defend their home.
The strangely pallid face of Taj Lamor tightened into lines of grim
resolution. This was a moment he had foreseen and had dreaded. Was he to
withdraw and leave these people unmolested, or was he to stand and fight
for this world, this wonderfully beautiful home, a home that his race
could live in for millions of years to come? He had debated this
question many times before in his mind, and he had decided. There would
never, never be another chance for his people to gain a new home. They
must fight.</p>

<p>Swiftly he gave his orders. If resistance came, if an attack were
made, they were to fight back at once, with every weapon at their
disposal.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 159]</span></p>

<p>The strangers' ships had grown swiftly larger to the eye, but still,
though near now, they seemed too small to be dangerous. These giant
interstellar cruisers were certainly invulnerable to ships so small;
their mere size would give them protection! These ships were scarcely as
long as the diameter of the smaller of the interstellar ships&mdash;a
bare two hundred and fifty feet for the largest.</p>

<p>The interstellar cruisers halted in their course, and waited for the
little ships to approach. They were fast, for they drew alongside
quickly, and raced to the front of the flagship. There was one small one
that was painted white, and on it there was a large white banner,
flapping in the wind of its passage. The rest of the ships drew off as
this came forward, and stopped, hanging motionless before the control
room of the giant machine. There were men inside&mdash;three strange
men, short and oddly pink-skinned&mdash;but they were gesturing now,
motioning that the giant machine settle to the ground beneath. Taj Lamor
was considering whether or not to thus parley with the strangers, when
suddenly there leaped from the white craft a beam of clear white&mdash;a
beam that was directed toward the ground, then swung up toward the great
cruiser in a swift arc!</p>

<p>As one, a dozen swift beams of pale red flared out from the giant and
bathed the pigmy craft. As they reached it, the white ray that had been
sweeping up suddenly vanished, and for an instant the ship hung poised
in the air; then it began to swing crazily, like the pendulum of a
clock&mdash;swung completely over&mdash;and with a sickening lurch sped
swiftly for the plain nearly five miles below. In moments there came a
brief flare, then there remained only a little crater in the soft
soil.</p>

<p>But the red beams had not stopped with the little ship; they had
darted out to the other machines, trying to reach them before they could
bring those strange white rays into play. The cruisers obviously must
win, for they carried dozens of projectors, but they might be damaged,
their flight delayed. They must defeat those strangers quickly. The rays
of Taj Lamor's ship lashed out swiftly, but almost
before <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 160]</span>they had started, all the
other ships, a full hundred, were in action, and the flagship was
darting swiftly up and away from the battle. Below, those pale red rays
were taking a swift toll of the little ships, and nearly twenty of them
rolled suddenly over, and dashed to destruction far below.</p>

<p>But now the little ships were in swift darting motion. Because of
their small size, they were able to avoid the rays of the larger
interstellar cruisers, and as their torpedo-shaped hulls flashed about
with bewildering speed, they began to fight back. They had been taken
utterly by surprise, but now they went into action with an abandon and
swiftness that took the initiative away from the gigantic interstellar
liners. They were in a dozen places at once, dodging and twisting,
unharmed, out of the way of the deadly red beams, and were as hard to
hit as so many dancing feathers suspended over an air jet.</p>

<p>And if the pilots were skillful in avoiding enemy rays, their ray men
were as accurate in placing theirs. But then, with a target of such vast
size, not so much skill was necessary.</p>

<p>These smaller vessels were the ships of Earth. The people of the dark
star had entered the solar system quite unannounced, except that they
had been seen in passing the orbit of Mars, for a ship had been out
there in space, moving steadily out toward Neptune, and the great
interstellar cruisers, flashing in across space, away from that frigid
planet, had not seen the tiny wanderer. But he had seen those mighty
hulks, and had sent his message of danger out on the ether, warning the
men of Earth. They had relayed it to Venus, and the ships that had gone
there had received an equally warm reception, and were even now finding
their time fully occupied trying to beat off the Interplanetary
Patrol.</p>

<p>The battle ended as swiftly as it began, for Taj Lamor, in his
machine high above, saw that they were outclassed, and ordered them to
withdraw at once. Scarcely ten minutes had elapsed, yet they had lost
twenty-two of their giant ships.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 161]</span></p>

<p>The expedition that had gone to Venus reported a similarly active
greeting. It was decided at once that they should proceed cautiously to
the other planets, to determine which were inhabited and which were not,
and to determine the chemical and physical conditions on each.</p>

<p>The ships formed again out in space, on the other side of the sun,
however, and started at once in compact formation for Mercury.</p>

<p>Their observations were completed without further mishap, and they
set out for their distant home, their number depleted by forty-one
ships, for nineteen had fallen on Venus.</p>

<hr>

<h4>I</h4>

<p>The Terrestrian and Venerian governments had met in conference, a
grim, businesslike discussion with few wasted words. Obviously, this was
to be a war of science, a war on a scale never before known on either
world. Agreements were immediately drawn up between the two worlds for a
concerted, cooperative effort. A fleet of new and vastly more powerful
ships must be constructed&mdash;but first they must have a complete
report on the huge invading craft that had fallen in western Canada, and
on Venus, for they might conceivably make their secrets their own.</p>

<p>They called for the scientists whose work had made possible their
successful resistance of the marauders: Arcot, Morey and Wade. They
found them working in the Arcot Laboratories.</p>

<p>&#8220;Wade,&#8221; called Arcot tensely as he snapped the switch of
the televisophone, &#8220;bring Morey and meet me at the machine on the roof
at once. That was a call from Washington. I'll explain as soon as you
get there.&#8221;</p>

<p>On the roof Arcot opened the hangar doors, and entered the
five-passenger molecular motion ship inside. Its
sleek, <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 162]</span>streamlined sides spoke of
power and speed. This was a special research model, designed for their
experiments, and carrying mechanisms not found in commercial crafts.
Among these were automatic controls still in the laboratory stage, but
permitting higher speed, for no human being could control the ship as
accurately as these.</p>

<p>It took the trio a little less than a quarter of an hour to make the
5,000 mile trip from New York to the battlefield of Canada. As they sped
through the air, Arcot told them what had transpired. The three were
passed through the lines at once, and they settled to the ground beside
one of the huge ships that lay half buried in the ground. The force of
the impact had splashed the solid soil as a stone will splash soft mud,
and around the ship there was a massive ridge of earth. Arcot looked at
the titanic proportions of this ship from space, and turned to his
friends:</p>

<p>&#8220;We can investigate that wreck on foot, but I think it'll be far more
sensible to see what we can do with the car. This monster is certainly a
mile or more long, and we'd spend more time in walking than in
investigation. I suggest, we see if there isn't room for the car inside.
This beats even those huge Kaxorian planes for size.&#8221; Arcot paused, then
grinned. &#8220;I sure would have liked to mix in the fight they must have had
here&mdash;nice little things to play with, aren't they?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;It would make a nice toy,&#8221; agreed Wade as he looked at
the rows of wicked-looking projectors along the sides of the metal hull,
&#8220;and I wonder if there might not be some of the crew alive in there? If
there are, the size of the ship would prevent their showing themselves
very quickly, and since they can't move the ship, it seems to me that
they'll let us know shortly that they're around. Probably, with the
engines stopped, their main weapons are useless, but they would
doubtless have some sort of guns. I'm highly in favor of using the car.
We carry a molecular director ray, so if the way is blocked, we can make
a new one.&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade's attention was caught by a sudden flare of
light <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 163]</span>a few miles across the plain.
&#8220;Look over there&mdash;that ship is still flaming&mdash;reddish, but
almost colorless. Looks like a gas flame, with a bit of calcium in it.
Almost as if the air in the ship were combustible. If we should do any
exploring in this baby, I suggest we use altitude suits&mdash;they can't
do any harm in any case.&#8221;</p>

<p>Three or four of the great wrecks, spread over a wide area, were
burning now, hurling forth long tongues of colorless, intensely hot
flame. Several of the ships had been only slightly damaged; one had been
brought down by a beam that had torn free the entire tail of the ship,
leaving the bow in good condition. Apparently this machine had not
fallen far; perhaps the pilot had retained partial control of the ship,
his power failing when he was only a comparatively short distance from
Earth. This was rather well to one side of the plain, however, and they
decided to investigate it later.</p>

<p>The ship nearest them had crashed nose first, the point being crushed
and shattered. Arcot maneuvered his craft cautiously toward the great
hole at the nose of the ship, and they entered the mighty vessel slowly,
a powerful spotlight illuminating the interior. Tremendous girders,
twisted and broken by the force of impact, thrust up about them. It soon
became evident that there was little to fear from any living enemies,
and they proceeded more rapidly. Certainly no creature could live after
the shock that had broken these huge girders! Several times metal beams
blocked their path, and they were forced to use the molecular director
ray to bend them out of the way.</p>

<p>&#8220;Man,&#8221; said Arcot as they stopped a moment to clear away
a huge member that was bent across their path, &#8220;but those beams do look
as if they were built permanently! I'd hate to ram into one of them!
Look at that one&mdash;if that has anywhere near the strength of steel,
just think of the force it took to bend it!&#8221;</p>

<p>At last they had penetrated to the long tube that led through the
length of the ship, the communication tube. This admitted the small ship
easily, and they moved <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 164]</span>swiftly along
till they came to what they believed to be about the center of the
invader. Here Arcot proposed that they step out and see what there was
to be seen.</p>

<p>The others agreed, and they at once put on their altitude suits of
heavy rubberized canvas, designed to be worn outside the ship when at
high altitude, or even in space. They were supplied with oxygen tanks
that would keep the wearer alive for about six hours. Unless the
atmosphere remaining in the alien ship was excessively corrosive, they
would be safe. After a brief discussion, they decided that all would go,
for if they met opposition, there would be strength in numbers.</p>

<p>They met their first difficulty in opening the door leading out of
the communication tube. It was an automatic door, and resisted their
every effort&mdash;until finally they were forced to tear it out with a
ray. It was impossible to move it in any other way. The door was in what
was now the floor, since the ship seemed to have landed on one side
rather than on its keel.</p>

<p>They let themselves through the narrow opening one at a time, and
landed on the sloping wall of the corridor beyond.</p>

<p>&#8220;Lucky this wasn't a big room, or we'd have had a nice drop to the
far wall!&#8221; commented Wade. The suits were equipped with a thin vibrating
diaphragm that made speech easy, but Wade's voice came through with a
queerly metallic ring.</p>

<p>Arcot agreed somewhat absently, his attention directed toward their
surroundings. His hand light pierced the blackness, finally halting at a
gaping opening, apparently the entrance to a corridor. As they examined
it, they saw that it slanted steeply downward.</p>

<p>&#8220;It seems to be quite a drop,&#8221; said Wade as he turned his
light into it, &#8220;but the surface seems to be rather rough. I think we can
do it. I notice that you brought a rope, Morey; I think it'll help. I'll
go first, unless someone else wants the honor.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;You go first?&#8221; Arcot hesitated briefly. &#8220;But I don't
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 165]</span>know&mdash;if we're all going, I
guess you had better, at that. It would take two ordinary men to lower a
big bulk like you. On the other hand, if anybody is going to stay,
you're delegated as elevator boy!</p>

<p>&#8220;Hold everything,&#8221; continued Arcot. &#8220;I have an idea. I
think none of us will need to hold the weight of the others with the
rope. Wade, will you get three fairly good-sized pieces of metal,
something we can tie a rope to? I think we can get down here without the
help of anyone else. Morey, will you cut the rope in three equal pieces
while I help Wade tear loose that girder?&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot refused to reveal his idea till his preparations were complete,
but worked quickly and efficiently. With the aid of Wade, he soon had
three short members, and taking the rope that Morey had prepared, he
tied lengths of cord to the pieces of metal, leaving twenty foot lengths
hanging from each. Now he carefully tested his handiwork to make sure
the knots would not slip.</p>

<p>&#8220;Now, let's see what we can do.&#8221; Arcot put a small loop
in one end of a cord, thrust his left wrist through this, and grasped
the rope firmly with his hand. Then he drew his ray pistol, and adjusted
it carefully for direction of action. The trigger gave him control over
power. Finally he turned the ray on the block of metal at the other end
of the rope. At once the metal pulled vigorously, drawing the rope taut,
and as Arcot increased the power, he was dragged slowly across the
floor.</p>

<p>&#8220;Ah&mdash;it works.&#8221; He grinned broadly over his
shoulder. &#8220;Come on, boys, hitch your wagon to a star, and we'll go on
with the investigation. This is a new, double action parachute. It lets
you down easy, and pulls you up easier! I think we can go where we want
now.&#8221; After a pause he added, &#8220;I don't have to tell you that too much
power will be very bad!&#8221;</p>

<p>With Arcot's simple brake, they lowered themselves into the corridor
below, descending one at a time, to avoid any contact with the ray,
since the touch of the beam was fatal.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 166]</span></p>

<p>The scene that lay before them was one of colossal destruction. They
had evidently stumbled upon the engine room. They could not hope to
illuminate its vast expanse with their little hand lights, but they
could gain some idea of its magnitude, and of its original layout. The
floor, now tilted at a steep angle, was torn up in many places, showing
great, massive beams, buckled and twisted like so many wires, while the
heavy floor plates were crumpled like so much foil. Everywhere the room
seemed covered with a film of white silvery metal; it was silver, they
decided after a brief examination, spattered broadcast over the walls of
the room.</p>

<p>Suddenly Morey pointed ceilingward with his light. &#8220;That's where the
silver came from!&#8221; he exclaimed. A network of heavy bars ran across the
roof, great bars of solid silver fully three feet thick. In one section
gaped a ragged hole, suggesting the work of a disintegration ray, a hole
that went into the metal roof above, one which had plainly been fused,
as had the great silver bars.</p>

<p>Arcot looked in wonder at the heavy metal bars. &#8220;Lord&mdash;bus bars
three feet thick! What engines they must have! Look at the way those
were blown out! They were short circuited by the crash, just before the
generator went out, and they were volatilized! Some juice!&#8221;</p>

<p>With the aid of their improvised elevators, the three men attempted
to explore the tremendous chamber. They had scarcely begun, when Wade
exclaimed:</p>

<p>&#8220;Bodies!&#8221;</p>

<p>They crowded around his gruesome find and caught their first glimpse
of the invaders from space. Anatomical details could not be
distinguished since the bodies had been caught under a rain of crushing
beams, but they saw that they were not too different from both
Terrestrians and Venerians&mdash;though their blood seemed strangely
pallid, and their skin was of a ghastly whiteness. Evidently they had
been assembled before an unfamiliar sort of instrument panel when
catastrophe struck; Morey indicated the dials and keys.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 167]</span></p>

<p>&#8220;Nice to know what you're fighting,&#8221; Arcot observed.
&#8220;I've a hunch that we'll see some of these critters alive&mdash;but not
in this ship!&#8221;</p>

<p>They turned away and resumed their examination of the shattered
mechanisms.</p>

<p>A careful examination was impossible; they were wrecks, but Arcot did
see that they seemed mainly to be giant electrical machines of standard
types, though on a gargantuan scale. There were titanic masses of
wrecked metal, iron and silver, for with these men silver seemed to
replace copper, though nothing could replace iron and its magnetic
uses.</p>

<p>&#8220;They are just electrical machines, I guess,&#8221; said Arcot
at last. &#8220;But what size! Have you seen anything really
revolutionary, Wade?&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade frowned and answered. &#8220;There are just two things that bother me.
Come here.&#8221; As Arcot jumped over, nearly suspended by his ray pistol,
Wade directed his light on a small machine that had fallen in between
the cracks in the giant mass of broken generators. It was a little
thing, apparently housed in a glass case. There was only one objection
to that assumption. The base of a large generator lay on it, metal fully
two feet thick, and that metal was cracked where it rested on the case,
and the case, made of material an inch and a half thick, was not
dented!</p>

<p>&#8220;Whewww&mdash;that's a nice kind of glass to have!&#8221; Morey
commented. &#8220;I'd like to have a specimen for examination. Oh&mdash;I
wonder&mdash;yes, it must be! There's a window in the side up there
toward what was the bow that seemed to me to be the same stuff. It's
buried about three feet in solid earth, so I imagine it must be.&#8221;</p>

<p>The three made their way at once to where they had seen the window.
The frame appeared to be steel, or some such alloy, and it was twisted
and bent under the blow, for this was evidently the outer wall, and the
impact of landing had flattened the rounded side. But that
&#8220;glass&#8221; window was quite undisturbed! There was, as a
further proof, a large granite boulder lying against it on the
outside&mdash;or what <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 168]</span>had been a
boulder, though it had been shattered by the impact.</p>

<p>&#8220;Say&mdash;that's some building material!&#8221; Arcot
indicated the transparent sheet. &#8220;Just look at that granite
rock&mdash;smashed into sand! Yet the window isn't even scratched! Look
how the frame that held it is torn&mdash;just torn, not broken. I wonder
if we can tear it loose altogether?&#8221; He stepped forward, raising his
pistol. There was a thud as his metal bar crashed down when the ray was
shut off. Then, as the others got out of the way, he stepped toward the
window and directed his beam toward it. Gradually he increased the
power, till suddenly there was a rending crash, and they saw only a
leaping column of earth and sand and broken granite flying up through
the hole in the steel shell. There was a sudden violent crash, then a
moment later a second equally violent crash as the window, having flown
up to the ceiling, came thumping back to the floor.</p>

<p>After the dust had settled they came forward, looking for the window.
They found it, somewhat buried by the rubbish, lying off to one side.
Arcot bent down to tilt it and sweep off the dirt; he grasped it with
one hand, and pulled. The window remained where it was. He grasped it
with both hands and pulled harder. The window remained where it was.</p>

<p>&#8220;Uh&mdash;say, lend a hand will you, Wade.&#8221; Together the
two men pulled, but without results. That window was about three feet by
two feet by one inch, making the total volume about one-half a cubic
foot, but it certainly was heavy. They could not begin to move it. An
equal volume of lead would have weighed about four hundred pounds, but
this was decidedly more than four hundred pounds. Indeed, the combined
strength of the three men did not do more than rock it.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well&mdash;it certainly is no kind of matter we know
of!&#8221; observed Morey. &#8220;Osmium, the heaviest known metal, has a
density of twenty-two and a half, which would weigh about 730 pounds. I
think we could lift that, so this is heavier than anything we know. At
least that's proof of a <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 169]</span>new system.
Between Venus and Earth we have found every element that occurs in the
sun. These people must have come from another star!&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Either that,&#8221; returned Arcot, &#8220;or proof of an amazing
degree of technological advancement. It's only a guess, of
course&mdash;but I have an idea where this kind of matter exists in the
solar system. I think you have already seen it&mdash;in the gaseous
state. You remember, of course, that the Kaxorians had great reservoirs
for storing light-energy in a bound state in their giant planes. They
had bound light, light held by the gravitational attraction for itself,
after condensing it in their apparatus, but they had what amounted to a
gas&mdash;gaseous light. Now suppose that someone makes a light
condenser even more powerful than the one the Kaxorians used, a
condenser that forces the light so close to itself, increases its
density, till the photons hold each other permanently, and the substance
becomes solid. It will be matter, matter made of light&mdash;light
matter&mdash;and let us call it a metal. You know that ordinary matter
is electricity matter, and electricity matter metals conduct electricity
readily. Now why shouldn't our 'light matter' metal conduct light? It
would be a wonderful substance for windows.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;But now comes the question of moving it,&#8221; Wade
interposed. &#8220;We can't lift it, and we certainly want to examine it. That
means we must take it to the laboratory. I believe we're about through
here&mdash;the place is clearly quite permanently demolished. I think we
had better return to the ship and start to that other machine we saw
that didn't appear to be so badly damaged. But&mdash;how can we move
this?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;I think a ray may do the trick.&#8221; Arcot drew his ray
pistol, and stepped back a bit, holding the weapon so the ray would
direct the plate straight up. Slowly he applied the power, and as he
gradually increased it, the plate stirred, then moved into the air.</p>

<p>&#8220;It works! Now you can use your pistol, Morey, and direct it toward
the corridor. I'll send it up, and let it fall outside, where we can
pick it up later.&#8221; Morey stepped <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
170]</span>forward, and while Arcot held it in the air with his ray, Morey
propelled it slowly with his, till it was directly under the corridor
leading upward. Then Arcot gave a sudden increase in power, and the
plate moved swiftly upward, sailing out of sight. Arcot shut off his
ray, and there came to their ears a sudden crash as the plate fell to
the floor above.</p>

<p>The three men regained their ropes and &#8220;double action
parachutes&#8221; as Arcot called them, and floated up to the next
floor. Again they started the process of moving the plate. All went well
till they came to the little car itself. They could not use the ray on
the car, for fear of damaging the machinery. They had to use some purely
mechanical method of hoisting it in.</p>

<p>Finally they solved the problem by using the molecular director ray
to swing a heavy beam into the air, then one man pulled on the far end
of it with a rope, and swung it till it was resting on the door of the
ship on one end, and the other rested in a hole they had torn in the
lining of the tube.</p>

<p>Now they maneuvered the heavy plate till it was resting on that beam;
then they released the plate, and watched it slide down the incline,
shooting through the open doorway of the car. In moments the job was
done. The plate at last safely stowed, the three men climbed into the
car, and prepared to leave.</p>

<p>The little machine glided swiftly down the tube through the mighty
ship, finally coming out through the opening that had admitted them.
They rose quickly into the air, and headed for the headquarters of the
government ships.</p>

<hr>

<h4>II</h4>

<p>A great number of scientists and military men were already gathered
about the headquarters ship. As Arcot's party arrived, they learned that
each of the wrecks was being assigned to one group. They further learned
that <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 171]</span>because of their scientific
importance, they were to go to the nearly perfect ship lying off to the
west. Two Air Patrolmen were to accompany them.</p>

<p>&#8220;Lieutenant Wright and Lieutenant Greer will go with
you,&#8221; said the Colonel. &#8220;In the event of trouble from
possible&mdash;though unlikely&mdash;survivors, they may be able to
help. Is there anything further we can do?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;These men are armed with the standard sidearms, aren't
they?&#8221; Arcot asked. &#8220;I think we'll all be better off if I arm them
with some of the new director-ray pistols. I have several in my boat. It
will be all right, I suppose?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Certainly, Dr. Arcot. They are under your command.&#8221;</p>

<p>The party, increased to five now, returned to the ship, where Arcot
showed the men the details of the ray pistols, and how to use them. The
control for direction of operation was rather intricate in these early
models, and required considerable explanation. The theoretical range of
even these small hand weapons was infinity in space, but in the
atmosphere the energy was rather rapidly absorbed by ionization of the
air, and the dispersion of the beam made it ineffective in space over a
range of more than thirty-five miles.</p>

<p>Again entering the little molecular motion car, they went at once to
the great hull of the fallen ship. They inspected it cautiously from
overhead before going too close, for the dreadnought, obviously, had
landed without the terrific concussion that the others had experienced,
and there was a possibility that some of the crew had survived the
crash. The entire stern of the huge vessel had been torn off, and
evidently the ship was unable to rise, but there were lights glowing
through the portholes on the side, indicating that power had not failed
completely.</p>

<p>&#8220;I think we'd better treat that monster with respect,&#8221;
remarked Wade, looking down at the lighted windows. &#8220;They have power,
and the hull is scarcely dented except where the stern was caught by a
beam. It's lucky we had those ray projector ships! They've been in
service only about four months, haven't they, Lieutenant?&#8221;</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 172]</span></p>

<p>&#8220;Just about that, sir,&#8221; the Air Patrolman replied. &#8220;They
hadn't gotten the hand weapons out in sufficient quantities to be issued
to us as yet.&#8221;</p>

<p>Morey scowled at the invader. &#8220;I don't like this at all. I wonder why
they didn't greet us with some of their beams,&#8221; he said in worried
tones. It did seem that there should be some of the rays in action now.
They were less than a mile from the fallen giant, and moving rather
slowly.</p>

<p>&#8220;I've been puzzled about that myself,&#8221; commented Arcot,
&#8220;and I've come to the conclusion that either the ray projectors are fed
by a separate system of power distribution, which has been destroyed, or
that the creatures from space are all dead.&#8221;</p>

<p>They were to learn later, in their exploration of the ship, that the
invaders' ray projectors were fed from a separate generator, which
produced a special form of alternating current wave for them. This
generator had been damaged beyond use.</p>

<p>The little machine was well toward the stern of the giant now, and
they lowered it till it was on a level with the torn metal. It was plain
that the ship had been subjected to some terrific tension. The great
girders were stretched and broken, and the huge ribs were bent and
twisted. The central tube, which ran the length of the ship, had been
drawn down to about three quarters of its original diameter, making it
necessary for them to use their ray to enter. In moments their speedster
glided into the dark tunnel. The searchlight reaching ahead filled the
metal tunnel with a myriad deceptive reflections. The tube was lighted
up far ahead of them, and seemed empty. Cautiously they advanced, with
Arcot at the controls.</p>

<p>&#8220;Wade&mdash;Morey&mdash;where will we stop first?&#8221; he
asked. &#8220;The engines? They'll probably be of prime importance. We know
their location. What do you say?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;I agree,&#8221; replied Wade, and Morey nodded his
approval.</p>

<p>They ran their craft down the long tube till they reached the door
they knew must be the engine room landing,
and <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 173]</span>stepped out, each wearing an
altitude suit. This ship had landed level, and progress would be much
easier than in the other one. They waited a moment before opening the
door into the engine room, for this led into a narrow corridor where
only one could pass. Caution was definitely in order. The Air Patrolmen
insisted on leading the way. They had been sent along for the express
purpose of protecting the scientists, and it was their duty to lead.
After a brief argument Arcot agreed.</p>

<p>The two officers stepped to the door, and standing off to one side,
tore it open with a ray from their pistols. It fell with a clatter to
the rounded metal floor of the tube, and lay there vibrating noisily,
but no rays of death lanced out from beyond it. Cautiously they peered
around the corner of the long corridor, then seeing nothing, entered.
Wade came next, then Arcot, followed by Morey.</p>

<p>The corridor was approximately thirty feet long, opening into the
great engine room. Already the men could hear the smooth hum of powerful
machines, and could see the rounded backs of vast mechanisms. But there
was no sign of life, human or otherwise. They halted finally at the
threshold of the engine room.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well,&#8221; Arcot said softly. &#8220;We haven't seen anyone so
far, and I hope no one has seen us. The invaders may be behind one of
those big engines, quite unaware of us. <i>If</i> they're there, and
they see us, they'll be ready to fight. Now remember, those weapons you
have will tear loose anything they hit, so take it easy. You know
something about the power of those engines, so don't put them out of
commission, and have them splash us all over the landscape.</p>

<p>&#8220;But look out for the crew, and get them if they try to get
you!&#8221;</p>

<p>Cautiously but quickly they stepped out into the great room, forming
a rough half circle, pistols ready for action. They walked forward
stealthily, glancing about them&mdash;and simultaneously the enemies
caught sight of each other. There were six of the invaders, each about
seven feet tall, and <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 174]</span>surprisingly
humanoid. They somewhat resembled Venerians, but they weren't Venerians,
for their skin was a strange gray-white, suggesting raw dough. It seemed
to Arcot that these strange, pale creatures were advancing at a slow
walk, and that he stood still watching them as they slowly raised
strange hand weapons. He seemed to notice every detail: their short,
tight-fitting suits of some elastic material that didn't hamper their
movements, and their strange flesh, which just seemed to escape being
transparent. Their eyes were strangely large, and the black spot of the
pupil in their white corneas created an unnatural effect.</p>

<p>Then abruptly their weapons came up&mdash;and Arcot responded with a
sudden flick of his ray, as he flung himself to one side. Simultaneously
his four companions let their beams fly toward the invaders. They glowed
strangely red here, but they were still effective. The six beings were
suddenly gone&mdash;but not before they had released their own beams.
And they had taken toll. Lieutenant Wright lay motionless upon the
floor.</p>

<p>The Terrestrians scarcely had a chance to notice this, for
immediately there was a terrific rending crash, and clean daylight came
pouring in through a wide opening in the wall of the ship. The five rays
had not stopped on contact with the enemy, but had touched the wall
behind them. An irregular opening now gaped in the smooth metal.</p>

<p>Suddenly there came a second jarring thud, a dull explosion; then a
great sheet of flame filled the hole&mdash;a wall of ruddy flame swept
rapidly in. Arcot swung up his ray pistol, pointing it at the mass of
flaming gas. A mighty column of air came through the narrow corridor
from the tube, rushing toward the outside, and taking the flame with it.
A roaring mass of gas hovered outside of the ship.</p>

<p>&#8220;Lieutenant,&#8221; said Arcot, swiftly, &#8220;turn your ray on that
hole, and keep it there, blowing that flame outside with it. You'll find
you can't put the fire out, but if you keep it outside the ship, I
believe we'll be reasonably safe.&#8221; The Patrolman obeyed instantly,
relieving Arcot.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 175]</span></p>

<p>Wade and Morey were already bending over the fallen man.</p>

<p>&#8220;I'm afraid there's nothing we can do for him,&#8221; the
latter said grimly, &#8220;and every moment here is dangerous. Let's continue
our investigation and carry him back to the ship when we leave.&#8221; Arcot
nodded silently.</p>

<p>Solemnly they turned away from the motionless figure on the floor and
set out on their investigation.</p>

<p>&#8220;Arcot,&#8221; began Morey after a moment, &#8220;why is that gas
burning like that? Can't we put it out?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Let's get through with this job first,&#8221; replied Arcot
somewhat tersely. &#8220;The discussion comes after.&#8221;</p>

<p>The bodies of the invaders were gone, so they could not examine them
now. That was a matter for the doctors and biologists, anyway. The
engines were their main interest, huge things which overshadowed
everything about them.</p>

<p>It must have been the concealment afforded by the engines that
permitted three of the enemy to get so close. The only warning the
Terrestrians had was a faint pink haze as they stepped around the corner
of an engine; and a sudden feeling of faintness swept over them. They
leaped back, out of sight, peering around the corner with nerves and
muscles tensed. There was no sign of movement.</p>

<p>As they watched, they saw a pallid hand reaching out with a ray gun;
and Wade swiftly pointed his own weapon. There came a sudden crash of
metal, a groan and quiet. Two other aliens leaped from behind the great
engine just as the Terrestrians dodged further back; as swiftly, they
too found concealment.</p>

<p>Arcot swung his ray up, and was about to pull the trigger that would
send the huge engine toppling over upon them, when he saw that it was
running. He thought of the unknown energies in the machine, the
potential destruction, and he shook his head. Cautiously he looked
around the edge of the towering mass, waiting&mdash;his beam flashed
out, and there was a snapping sound as the ray caught a reaching hand
and hurled its owner against a mighty transformer of some sort. For an
instant the huge mass tottered, then was still. In
the <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 176]</span>low concentration of power that
Arcot had used, only a small portion had been touched, and the molecules
of this portion had not been enough to tip over its tremendous
weight.</p>

<p>Only one enemy remained; and Arcot learned swiftly that he was still
in action, for before he could dodge back there came that now-familiar
pink haziness. It touched Arcot's hand, outstretched as it had been when
he fired, and a sudden numbness came over it. His pistol hand seemed to
lose all feeling of warmth or cold. It was there; he could still feel
the weapon's deadened weight. Reflex action hurled him back, his hand
out of range of the ray. In seconds feeling began to return, and in less
than ten his hand was normal again.</p>

<p>He turned to the others with a wry grin. &#8220;Whew&mdash;that was a
narrow squeak! I must say their ray is a gentlemenly sort of thing. It
either kills you, or doesn't injure you at all. There it goes
again!&#8221;</p>

<p>A shaft of pink radiance reached the end of the engine, just grazing
it, evidently absorbed by its mass. &#8220;Pinning us down,&#8221; Wade
grated. They certainly couldn't step out into the open space&mdash;but
they couldn't stay where they were indefinitely, either. Reinforcements
might arrive!</p>

<p>&#8220;Look,&#8221; Wade pointed with his pistol, &#8220;he's under that
big metal bar&mdash;up there in the roof&mdash;see it? I'll pull it
down; he may get nervous and come into sight.&#8221; Swiftly Arcot sprang
forward and caught his arm.</p>

<p>&#8220;Lord&mdash;don't do that, Wade&mdash;there's too much stuff here
that we don't know anything about. Too much chance of your smashing us
with him. I'm going to try to get around to the other side of this
machine and see what I can do, while you fellows keep him occupied.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot disappeared around the black humming giant. Interminably the
others waited for something to happen; then suddenly the beam that had
been playing at irregular intervals across the end of the machine, swung
quickly to the other side; and simultaneously another ray seemed to leap
from the machine itself. They met and crossed. There came a momentary
crashing arc, then both went dead, as the ap<span class="pagenum">[Pg.
177]</span>paratus that generated them blew out under terrific
overload.</p>

<p>The invader evidently carried a spare, for the watchers saw him dart
from concealment, clawing at his pocket pouch. They turned their rays on
him, and just as his projector came free, a ray hurled him violently to
the left. He crashed into a huge motor, and the result was not nice.</p>

<p>The projector had been jerked from his hand and lay off to the side.
Arcot ran to it and picked it up just as they heard the Lieutenant call
an alarmed inquiry.</p>

<p>&#8220;I think we're okay now,&#8221; Arcot answered. &#8220;I hope there
are no more&mdash;but by all means stay where you are, and use as little
power as possible in blowing that flame outside. It uses up the
atmosphere of the ship, and though we don't need it, I think we'd better
take things easy. Call us if anything looks odd to you.&#8221;</p>

<p>For several minutes the three scientists looked about them in
awe-struck wonder. They were the first men of Earth to see the driving
equipment of one of the tremendous Kaxorian planes, and they felt tiny
beside its great bulk; but now, as they examined this engine room, they
realized that even the huge plane shrank into insignificance beside this
interstellar cruiser.</p>

<p>All about them loomed the great rounded backs of giant electric
motor-generators of some sort. Across the roof ran a network of gigantic
metal bars, apparently conductors, but so large that they suggested
heavy structural members. The machines they ran into loomed fully thirty
feet into the air; they were longer than cylinders, thirty feet in
diameter, and there was a group of four main machines fully a hundred
twenty feet long! There were many smaller mechanisms&mdash;yet these
smaller ones would easily have constituted a complete power supply for
the average big city. Along each wall ran a bank of transformers, cast
in the same heroic mold. These seemed connected with the smaller
machines, there being four conductors leading into each of the minor
units, two intake, and two, apparently, output leads, suggesting rotary
converters. The multiple units and the various types and sizes of
transformers made it obvious that many different
frequen<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 178]</span>cies were needed. Some of the
transformers had air cores, and led to machines surrounded with a
silvery white metal instead of the usual iron. These, apparently, were
generating current at an extremely high frequency.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well,&#8221; Morey commented, &#8220;they ought to have power
enough. But do you notice that those four main units have their leads
radiating in different directions? The one on the left there seems to
lead to that big power board at the front&mdash;or better, bow. I think
it would be worth investigating.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot nodded. &#8220;I had the same idea. You notice that two of the main
power units are still working, but that those other two have stopped?
Probably the two dead ones have something to do with the motion of the
ship. But there's one point I think is of even greater interest. All the
machines we have seen, all the conspicuous ones, are secondary power
sources. There are no primary sources visible. Notice that those two
main conduits lead over to the right, and toward the bow. Let's check
where they go to.&#8221;</p>

<p>As they talked they followed the huge conductors back to their point
of convergence. Suddenly they rounded one of the huge main power units,
and saw before them, at the center of square formed by these machines, a
low platform of transparent light-metal. At the exact center of this
platform, which was twenty feet in diameter, there was a table, about
seven feet across and raised about five feet above the level of the
platform on stout light-metal legs. On the table were two huge cubes of
solid silver, and into these cubes ran all the conductors they had
seen.</p>

<p>In the space of about six inches left between the blocks of metal,
there was a small box constructed of some strange new material. It was
the most perfect reflecting surface that any of the men had ever
imagined. Indeed, it was so perfect a reflector that they were unable to
see it, but could detect its presence only by the mirror images, and the
fact that it blotted out objects behind it.</p>

<p>Now they noticed that through the huge blocks of metal there were two
small holes, and two thin wires of this same reflecting material led
into those holes. The wires led directly <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
179]</span>up to the roof, and, suspended on three-foot hangers of the
light-metal, continued on toward the bow.</p>

<p>Could this be the source of power for the entire ship? It seemed
impossible, yet there were many other seeming impossible things here,
among them that strangely reflecting matter.</p>

<p>There was a low railing about the central platform, apparently
intended to keep observers at a safe distance, so they decided against
any more detailed investigation. As they were about to discuss their
unusual find, the Lieutenant called that he heard sounds behind him.</p>

<p>At once the three ran rapidly toward the narrow corridor that had
given them entrance. The flaming gas was still shooting through the hole
in the wall of the ship, and the rush of air through the corridor made
it difficult to hear any sounds there, and exceedingly difficult to
walk.</p>

<p>&#8220;Turn on more power, Lieutenant, and see if we can't draw out the
enemy,&#8221; suggested Arcot, while they braced themselves around the tube
exit.</p>

<p>As the Patrolman increased the power of his beam, the moan of the air
through the corridor increased suddenly to a terrific roar, and a
cyclonic gale swept through. But none of the invaders were drawn
out.</p>

<p>After the Lieutenant had shut off the blast from his pistol at
Arcot's signal, the latter said: &#8220;I don't think anything less than a war
tank could stand that pressure. It's probable that we'll be attacked if
we stay here much longer, though&mdash;and we may not be able to get out
at all. I think, Lieutenant, I'll ask you to stay here while we go out
and get the ship ready to leave.&#8221; He paused, grinning. &#8220;Be sure to keep
that flame outside. You'll be in the position of Hercules after Atlas
left him holding the skies on his shoulders. You can't shut off the ray
for long or we'll have a first-rate explosion. We'll signal when we're
ready by firing a revolver, and you make it to the ship as fast as you
can travel.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot's expression became solemn. &#8220;We'll have to carry Wright back to
the ship. He was a brave man, and he certainly deserves burial in the
soil of his own world. And, <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 180]</span>Morey,
we'll have to look up his family. Your father's company will have to
take care of them if they need help.&#8221;</p>

<p>Slowly the men forced their way back toward their ship, fighting
against the roaring column of air, their burden hindering them somewhat;
but at last they reached the open tunnel. Even here the air was in
violent motion.</p>

<p>They got into their boat as quickly as possible, and set the controls
for reverse flight. Then Wade fired the signal shot. In moments they saw
Lieutenant Greer bucking against the current of air, continuing under
its own momentum.</p>

<p>By the time he was in the ship an ominous calm had fallen. Swiftly
they sped down the corridor, and had almost reached the open air, when
suddenly there was a dull rumble behind them, and they were caught on a
wave of pressure that hurled them along at terrific speed. In a flash
they sped into the open air, the great tunnel with its thick walls and
flared opening acting like a gigantic blunderbus, with the ship as its
bullet. Arcot made no attempt to slow down the little craft, but pressed
his foot heavily on the vertical accelerator. The ship rocketed up with
terrific speed, and the acceleration pinned the men down to their seats
with tripled weight.</p>

<p>Anxiously they watched the huge invader as they sped away from it. At
Arcot's direction Morey signaled the other groups of scientists to get
out of danger with all speed, warning of the impending blow-up. As the
moments sped by the tension mounted. Arcot stared fixedly into the
screen before him, keeping the giant space ship in focus. As they sped
mile upon miles away from it, he began to relax a bit.</p>

<p>Not a word was spoken as they watched and waited. Actually, very
little time passed before the explosion, but to the watchers the seconds
dragged endlessly. Then at twenty-seven miles, the screen flared into a
sheet of blinding white radiance. There was a timeless
instant&mdash;then a tremendous wave of sound, a roaring, stunning
concussion smote the ship, shaking it with unrestrained fury&mdash;to
cease as abruptly as it came.</p>

<p>Immediately they realized the reason. They were
rushing <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 181]</span>away from the explosion
faster than the sound it made, hence could not hear it. After the first
intolerable flash, details became visible. The great ship seemed to leap
into countless tremendous fragments, each rushing away from the point of
the blow-up. They did not go far; the force was not sustained long
enough, nor was it great enough to overcome the inertia of so vast a
mass for more than moments. Huge masses rained to earth, to bury
themselves in the soil.</p>

<p>There came a momentary lull. Then suddenly, from the mass which
evidently held the wrecked engine room, there shot out a beam of intense
white light that swept around in a wide, erratic arc. Whatever it
touched fused instantly into a brilliantly glowing mass of liquid
incandescence. The field itself, fragments of the wreckage, fused and
mingled under its fury. The beam began to swing, faster and faster, as
the support that was holding it melted; then abruptly it turned upon
itself. There came a sudden blast of brilliance to rival that of the
sun&mdash;and the entire region became a molten lake. Eyes streaming,
temporarily blinded, the men turned away from the screen.</p>

<p>&#8220;That,&#8221; said Arcot ruefully, &#8220;is that! It seems that our
visitors don't want to leave any of their secrets lying around for us to
investigate. I've an idea that all the other wrecks will go like this
one did.&#8221; He scowled. &#8220;You know, we really didn't learn much. Guess we'd
better call the headquarters ship and ask for further instructions. Will
you attend to it, Lieutenant Greer?&#8221;</p>

<hr>

<h4>III</h4>

<p>Swiftly Arcot's sleek cruiser sped toward New York and the Arcot
Laboratories. They had halted briefly at the headquarters ship of the
Earth-Venus forces to report on their experience; and alone again, the
three scientists were on their way home.</p>

<p>With their course set, Arcot spoke to the others. &#8220;Well, fellows,
what are your opinions on&mdash;what we've seen?
Wade, <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 182]</span>you're a chemist&mdash;tell us
what you think of the explosion of the ship, and of the strange color of
our molecular ray in their air.&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade shook his head doubtfully. &#8220;I've been trying to figure it out,
and I can't quite believe my results. Still, I can't see any other
explanation. That reddish glow looked like hydrogen ions in the air. The
atmosphere was certainly combustible when it met ours, which makes it
impossible for me to believe that their air contained any noticeable
amount of oxygen, for anything above twenty per cent oxygen and the rest
hydrogen would be violently explosive. Apparently the gas had to mix
liberally with our air to reach that proportion. That it didn't explode
when ionized, showed the absence of hydro-oxygen mixture.</p>

<p>&#8220;All the observed facts except one seem to point to an atmosphere
composed largely of hydrogen. That one&mdash;there are beings living in
it! I can understand how the Venerians might adapt to a different
climate, but I can't see how anything approaching human life can live in
an atmosphere like that.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot nodded. &#8220;I have come to similar conclusions. But I don't see
too much objection to the thought of beings living in an atmosphere of
hydrogen. It's all a question of organic chemistry. Remember that our
bodies are just chemical furnaces. We take in fuel and oxidize it, using
the heat as our source of power. The invaders live in an atmosphere of
hydrogen. They eat oxidizing fuels, and breathe a reducing atmosphere;
they have the two fuel components together again, but in a way different
from our method. Evidently, it's just as effective. I'm sure that's the
secret of the whole thing.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Sounds fairly logical.&#8221; Wade agreed. &#8220;But now I have a
question for you. Where under the sun did these beings come from?&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot's reply came slowly. &#8220;I've been wondering the same thing. And
the more I wonder, the less I believe they did come from&mdash;under our
sun. Let's eliminate all the solar planets&mdash;we can do that at one
fell swoop. It's perfectly ob<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 183]</span>vious
that those ships are by no means the first crude attempts of this race
to fly through space. We're dealing with an advanced technology. If they
have had those ships even as far away as Pluto, we should certainly have
heard from them by now.</p>

<p>&#8220;Hence, we've got to go out into interstellar space. You'll probably
want to ram some of my arguments down my throat&mdash;I know there is no
star near enough for the journey to be made in anything less than a
couple of generations by all that's logical; and they'd freeze in the
interstellar cold doing it. There is no <i>known</i> star close
enough&mdash;but how about unknowns?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;What have they been doing with the star?&#8221; Morey snorted.
&#8220;Hiding it behind a sun-shade?&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot grinned. &#8220;Yes. A shade of old age. You know a sun can't radiate
forever; eventually they die. And a dead sun would be quite black, I'm
sure.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;And the planets that circle about them are apt to become a wee bit
cool too, you know.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Agreed,&#8221; said Arcot, &#8220;and we wouldn't be able to do much
about it. But give these beings credit for a little higher order of
intelligence. We saw machines in that space ship that certainly are
beyond us! They are undoubtedly heating their planets with the same
source of energy with which they are running their ships.</p>

<p>&#8220;I believe I have confirmation of that statement in two things. They
are absolutely colorless; they don't even have an opaque white skin. Any
living creature exposed to the rays of a sun, which is certain to emit
some chemical rays, is subject to coloration as a protection against
those rays. The whites, who have always lived where sunlight is weakest,
have developed a skin only slightly opaque. The Orientals, who live in
more tropical countries, where less clothes and more sun is the motto,
have slightly darker skins. In the extreme tropics Nature has found it
necessary to use a regular blanket of color to stop the rays. Now
extrapolating the other way, were there no such rays, the people would
become a pigmentless race. Since most proteins are rather translucent,
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 184]</span>at least when wet, they would appear
much as these beings do. Remember, there are very few colored proteins.
Hemoglobin, such as in our blood, and hemocyanin, like that in the blue
blood of the Venerians, are practically unique in that respect. For
hydrogen absorption, I imagine the blood of these creatures contains a
fair proportion of some highly saturated compound, which readily takes
on the element, and gives it up later.</p>

<p>&#8220;But we can kick this around some more in the lab.&#8221;</p>

<p>Before starting for New York, Arcot had convinced the officer in
charge that it would be wise to destroy the more complete of the
invaders' ships at once, lest one of them manage to escape. The fact
that none of them had any rays in operation was easily explained; they
would have been destroyed by the Patrol if they had made any show of
weapons. But they might be getting some ready, to be used in possible
escape attempts. The scientists were through with their preliminary
investigations. And the dismembered sections would remain for study,
anyway.</p>

<p>The ships had finally been rayed apart, and when the three had left,
their burning atmosphere had been sending mighty tongues of flame a mile
or more into the air. The light gas of the alien atmosphere tended to
rise in a great globular cloud, a ball that quickly burned itself out.
It had not taken long for the last of the machines to disintegrate under
the rays. There would be no more trouble from them, at any rate!</p>

<p>Now Morey asked Arcot if he thought that they had learned all they
could from the ships; would it not have been wiser to save them, and
investigate more fully later, taking a chance on stopping any sudden
attack by surviving marauders by keeping a patrol of Air Guards
there.</p>

<p>To which Arcot replied, &#8220;I thought quite a bit before I suggested
their destruction, and I conferred for a few moments with Forsyth, who's
just about tops in biology and bacteriology. He said that they had by no
means learned as much as they wished to, but they'd been forced to leave
in any event. Remember that pure hydrogen, the
atmo<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 185]</span>sphere we were actually living in
while on the ship, is quite as inert as pure oxygen&mdash;when alone.
But the two get very rough when mixed together. The longer those ships
lay there the more dangerously explosive they became. If we hadn't
destroyed them, they would have wrecked themselves. I still think we
followed the only logical course.</p>

<p>&#8220;Dr. Forsyth mentioned the danger of disease. There's a remote
possibility that we might be susceptible to their germs. I don't believe
we would be, for our chemical constitution is so vastly different. For
instance, the Venerians and Terrestrians can visit each other with
perfect freedom. The Venerians have diseases, and so do we, of course;
but there are things in the blood of Venerians that are absolutely
deadly to any Terrestrian organism. We have a similar deadly effect on
Venerian germs. It isn't immunity&mdash;it's simply that our respective
constitutions are so different that we don't need immunity. Similarly,
Forsyth thinks we would be completely resistant to all diseases brought
by the invaders. However, it's safer to remove the danger, if any,
first, and check afterward.&#8221;</p>

<p>The three men sped rapidly back to New York, flying nearly sixty
miles above the surface of the Earth, where there would be no
interfering traffic, till at length they were above the big city, and
dropping swiftly in a vertical traffic lane.</p>

<p>Shortly thereafter they settled lightly in the landing cradle at the
Arcot Laboratories. Arcot's father, and Morey's, were there, anxiously
awaiting their return. The elder Arcot had for many years held the
reputation of being the nation's greatest physicist, but recently he had
lost it&mdash;to his son. Morey Senior was the president and chief
stockholder in the Transcontinental Air Lines. The Arcots, father and
son, had turned all their inventions over to their close friends, the
Moreys. For many years the success of the great air lines had been
dependent in large part on the inventions of the Arcots; these new
discoveries enabled them to keep one step ahead of competition, and as
they also made the huge transport machines for other
companies, <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 186]</span>they drew tremendous
profits from these mechanisms. The mutual interest, which had begun as a
purely financial relationship, had long since become a close personal
friendship.</p>

<p>As Arcot stepped from his speedster, he called immediately to his
father, telling of their find, the light-matter plate.</p>

<p>&#8220;I'll need a handling machine to move it. I'll be right
back.&#8221; He ran to the elevator and dropped quickly to the heavy
machinery lab on the lower floor. In a short time he returned with a
tractor-like machine equipped with a small derrick, designed to get its
power from the electric mains. He ran the machine over to the ship. The
others looked up as they heard the rumble and hum of its powerful motor.
From the crane dangled a strong electro-magnet.</p>

<p>&#8220;What's that for?&#8221; asked Wade, pointing to the magnet.
&#8220;You don't expect this to be magnetic, do you?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Wait and see!&#8221; laughed Arcot, maneuvering the handling
machine into position. One of the others made contact with the power
line, and the crane reached into the ship, lowering the magnet to the
plate of crystal. Then Arcot turned the power into the lifting motor.
The hum rose swiftly in volume and pitch till the full load began to
strain the cables. The motor whined with full power, the cables
vibrating under the tension. The machine pulled steadily, until, to
Arcot's surprise, the rear end of the machine rose abruptly from the
floor, tipping forward.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well&mdash;it <i>was</i> magnetic, but how did you
know?&#8221; asked the surprised Wade. Since the ship was made of the
Venerian metal, coronium, which was only slightly magnetic, the plate
was obviously the magnet's only load.</p>

<p>&#8220;Never mind. I'll tell you later. Get an I-beam, say about twenty
feet long, and see if you can't help lift that crazy mass. I think we
ought to manage it that way.&#8221;</p>

<p>And so it proved. With two of them straddling the I-beam, the
leverage was great enough to pull the plate out. Running it over to the
elevator, they lowered the heavy mass, disconnected the cable, and rode
down to Arcot's laboratory. <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 187]</span>Again the
I-beam and handling machine were brought into play, and the plate was
unloaded from the car. The five men gathered around the amazing souvenir
from another world.</p>

<p>&#8220;I'm with Wade in wondering how you knew the plate was magnetic,
son,&#8221; commented the elder Arcot. &#8220;I can accept your explanation that the
stuff is a kind of matter made of light, but I know you too well to
think it was just a lucky guess. How did you know?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;It really was pretty much of a guess, Dad, though there was some
logic behind the thought. You ought to be able to trace down the idea!
How about you, Morey?&#8221; Arcot smiled at his friend.</p>

<p>&#8220;I've kept discreetly quiet,&#8221; replied Morey, &#8220;feeling
that in silence I could not betray my ignorance, but since you ask me, I
can guess too. I seem to recall that light is affected by a powerful
magnet, and I can imagine that that was the basis for your guess. It has
been known for many years, as far back as Clerk Maxwell, that polarized
light can be rotated by a powerful magnet.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;That's it! And now we may as well go over the whole story, and tell
Dad and your father all that happened. Perhaps in the telling, we can
straighten out our own ideas a bit.&#8221;</p>

<p>For the next hour the three men talked, each telling his story, and
trying to explain the whys and wherefores of what he had seen. In the
end all agreed on one point: if they were to fight this enemy, they
<i>must</i> have ships that could travel though space with speed to
match that of the invaders, ships with a self-contained source of
power.</p>

<p>During a brief lull in the conversation, Morey commented rather
sarcastically: &#8220;I wonder if Arcot will now kindly explain his famous
invisible light, or the lost star?&#8221; He was a bit nettled by his own
failure to remember that a star could go black. &#8220;I can't see what
connection this has with their sudden attack. If they were there, they
must have developed when the star was bright, and as a star requires
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 188]</span>millions of years to cool down, I
can't see how they could suddenly appear in space.&#8221;</p>

<p>Before answering, Arcot reached into a drawer of his desk and pulled
out an old blackened briar pipe. Methodically he filled it, a thoughtful
frown on his face; then carefully lighting it, he leaned back, puffing
out a thin column of gray smoke.</p>

<p>&#8220;Those creatures must have developed on their planets before the sun
cooled.&#8221; He puffed slowly. &#8220;They are, then, a race millions of years
old&mdash;or so I believe. I can't give any scientific reason for this
feeling; it's merely a hunch. I just have a feeling that the invaders
are old, older than our very planet! This little globe is just about two
billion years old. I feel that that race is so very ancient they may
well have counted the revolutions of our galaxy as, once every twenty or
thirty million years, it swung about its center.</p>

<p>&#8220;When I looked at those great machines, and those comparatively
little beings as they handled their projectors, they seemed out of
place. Why?&#8221; He shrugged. &#8220;Again, just a hunch, an impression.&#8221; He
paused again, and the slow smoke drifted upward.</p>

<p>&#8220;If I'm granted the premise that a black, dead star is approaching
the Solar System, then my theorizing may seem more logical. You agree?&#8221;
The listeners nodded and Arcot continued. &#8220;Well&mdash;I had an
idea&mdash;and when I went downstairs for the handling machine, I called
the Lunar Observatory.&#8221; He couldn't quite keep a note of triumph out of
his voice. &#8220;Gentlemen&mdash;some of the planets have been misbehaving!
The outermost planets, and even some of those closer to the sun have not
been moving as they should. A celestial body of appreciable
mass <i>is</i> approaching the System; though thus far nothing has been
seen of the visitor!&#8221;</p>

<p>A hubbub of excited comment followed this startling revelation. Arcot
quieted them with an upraised hand. &#8220;The only reason you and the world
at large haven't heard about this as yet is the fact that the
perturbation of the planets is so very slight that the astronomers
figured they might <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 189]</span>have made an error
in calculation. They're rechecking now for mistakes.</p>

<p>&#8220;To get back to my visualization&mdash;It must have been many
millions of years ago that life developed on the planets of the black
star, a warm sun then, for it was much younger. It was probably rather
dim as suns go even its younger days. Remember, our own sun is well
above average in brilliance and heat radiation.</p>

<p>&#8220;In those long-gone ages I can imagine a race much like ours
developing, differing chemically, in their atmosphere of hydrogen; but
the chemical body is not what makes the race, it's the thought process.
They must have developed, and then as their science grew, their sun
waned. Dimmer and dimmer it became, until their planets could not
maintain life naturally. Then they had to heat them artificially. There
is no question as to their source of power; they had to use the energy
of matter&mdash;so called atomic energy&mdash;for no other source would
be great enough to do what had to be done. It is probable that their
science had developed this long before their great need arose.</p>

<p>&#8220;With this must also have come the process of transmutation, and the
process they use in driving their interstellar cruisers. I am sure those
machines are driven by material energy.</p>

<p>&#8220;But at last their star was black, a closed star, and their cold,
black planets must circle a hot, black sun forever! They were trapped
for eternity unless they found a way to escape to some other stellar
system. They could not travel as fast as light, and they could escape
only if they found some near-by solar system. Their star was
dead&mdash;black. Let's call it Nigra&mdash;the Black One&mdash;since
like every other star it should have a name. Any objection?&#8221;</p>

<p>There was none, so Arcot continued:</p>

<p>&#8220;Now we come to an impossibly rare coincidence. That two suns in
their motion should approach each other is beyond the point of logic.
That both suns have a retinue of planets approaches the height of the
ridiculous. Yet that is what is happening right now. And the
Nigrans&mdash;if that's <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 190]</span>the correct
term&mdash;have every intention of taking advantage of the coincidence.
Since our sun has been visible to them for a long, long time, and the
approaching proximity of the suns evident, they had lots of time to
prepare.</p>

<p>&#8220;I believe this expedition was just an exploratory one; and if they
can send such huge machines and so many of them, for mere exploration,
I'm sure they must have quite a fleet to fight with.</p>

<p>&#8220;We know little about their weapons. They have that death ray, but
it's not quite as deadly as we might have feared, solely because our
ships could outmaneuver them. Next time, logically, they'll bring with
them a fleet of little ships, carried in the bellies of those giants,
and they'll be a real enemy. We'll have to anticipate their moves and
build to circumvent them.</p>

<p>&#8220;As for their ray, I believe I have an idea how it works. You're all
familiar with the catalytic effects of light. Hydrogen and chlorine will
stand very peacefully in the same jar for a long time, but let a strong
light fall on them, and they combine with terrific violence. This is the
catalytic effect of a vibration, a wave motion. Then there is such a
thing as negative catalysis. In a certain reaction, if a third element
or compound is introduced, all reaction is stopped. I believe that's the
principle of the Nigran death ray; it's a catalyst that simply stops the
chemical reactions of a living body, and these are so delicately
balanced that the least resistance will upset them.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot halted, and sat puffing furiously for a moment. During his
discourse the pipe had died to an ember; with vigorous puffing he tried
to restore it. At last he had it going and continued.</p>

<p>&#8220;What other weapons they have we cannot say. The secret of
invisibility must be very old to them. But we'll guard against the
possibility by equipping our ships against it. The only reason the
patrol ships aren't equipped already is that invisibility is useless
with modern criminals; they all know the secret and how to fight
it.&#8221;</p>

<p>Morey interrupted with a question.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 191]</span></p>

<p>&#8220;Arcot, it's obvious that we have to get out into space to meet the
enemy&mdash;and we'll have to have freedom of movement there. How are we
going to do it? I was wondering if we could use Wade's system of storing
the atomic hydrogen in solution. That yields about 100,000 calories for
every two grams, and since this is a method of storing heat energy, and
your molecular motion director is a method of converting heat into
mechanical work with 100 per cent efficiency, why not use that? All we
need, really, is a method of storing heat energy for use while we're in
space.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot exhaled slowly before answering, watching the column of smoke
vanish into the air.</p>

<p>&#8220;I thought of that, and I've been trying to think of other, and if
possible, better, cheaper, and quicker ways of getting the necessary
power.</p>

<p>&#8220;Let's eliminate the known sources one by one. The usual ones, the
ones men have been using for centuries, go out at once. The atomic
hydrogen reaction stores more energy per gram than any other chemical
reaction known. Such things as the storage battery, the electro-static
condenser, the induction coil, or plain heat storage, are worthless to
us. The only other method of storing energy we know of is the method
used by the Kaxorians in driving their huge planes.</p>

<p>&#8220;They use condensed light-energy. This is efficient to the ultimate
maximum, something no other method can hope to attain. Yet they need
huge reservoirs to store it. The result is still ineffective for our
purpose; we want something we can put in a small space; we want to
condense the light still further. That will be the ideal form of energy
storage, for then we will be able to release it directly as a heat ray,
and so use it with utmost efficiency. I think we can absorb the released
energy in the usual cavity radiator.&#8221;</p>

<p>A queer little smile appeared on Arcot's face. &#8220;Remember&mdash;what
we want is light in a more condensed form, a form that is naturally
stable, and that does not need to be held in a bound state, but actually
requires urging to bring about the release of energy. For
example&mdash;&#8221;</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 192]</span></p>

<p>A shout from Wade interrupted him. &#8220;That's really
rare! <i>Whoo</i>&mdash;I have to hand it to you! That takes all the
prizes!&#8221; He laughed delightedly. In puzzled wonder Morey and the two
older men looked at him, and at Arcot who was grinning broadly now.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well, I suppose it must be funny,&#8221; Morey began, then
hesitated. &#8220;Oh&mdash;I see&mdash;say, that <i>is</i> good!&#8221;
He turned to his father. &#8220;I see now what he's been driving at. It's been
right here under our noses all the time.</p>

<p>&#8220;The light-matter windows we found in the wrecked enemy ships contain
enough bound light-energy to run all the planes we could make in the
next ten years! We're going to have the enemy supply us with power we
can't get in any other way. I can't decide, Arcot, whether you deserve a
prize for ingenuity, or whether we should receive booby-prizes for our
stupidity.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot Senior smiled at first, then looked dubiously at his son.</p>

<p>&#8220;There's definitely plenty of the right kind of energy stored
there&mdash;but as you suggested, the energy will need encouragement to
break free. Any ideas?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;A couple. I don't know how they'll work, of course; but we can
try.&#8221; Arcot puffed at his pipe, serious now as he thought of the
problems ahead.</p>

<p>Wade interposed a question. &#8220;How do you suppose they condense that
light energy in the first place, and, their sun being dead, whence all
the light? Back to the atom, I suppose.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;You know as much as I do, of course, but I'm sure they must break up
matter for its energy. As for the condensation problem, I think I have a
possible solution of that too&mdash;it's the key to the problem of
release. There's a lot we don't know now&mdash;but we'll have a bigger
store of knowledge before this war is over&mdash;if we have anything at
all!&#8221; he added grimly. &#8220;It's possible that man may lose knowledge, life,
his planets and sun&mdash;but there's still plenty of hope. We're not
finished yet.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;How do you think they got their energy loose?&#8221; asked
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 193]</span>Wade. &#8220;Do you think those big
blocks of what appeared to be silver were involved in the energy
release?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Yes, I do. Those blocks were probably designed to carry away the
power once it was released. How the release was accomplished, though, I
don't know. They couldn't use material apparatus to start their release
of material energy; the material of the apparatus might 'catch fire'
too. They had to have the disintegrating matter held apart from all
other matter. This was quite impossible, if you are going to get the
energy away by any method other than by the use of fields of force. I
don't think that is the method. My guess is that a terrific current of
electricity would accomplish it if anything would.</p>

<p>&#8220;How then are we going to get the current to it? The wires will be
subject to the same currents. Whatever they do to the matter involved,
the currents will do to the apparatus&mdash;except in one case. If that
apparatus is made of <i>some other kind of matter</i>, then it wouldn't
be affected. The solution is obvious. Use some of the light-matter. What
will destroy light-matter, won't destroy electricity-matter, and what
will destroy electricity-matter, won't disturb light-matter.</p>

<p>&#8220;Do you remember the platform of light-metal, clear as crystal? It
must have been an insulating platform. What we started as our
assumptions in the case of the light-metal, we can now carry further. We
said that electricity-metals carried electricity, so light-metals would
carry or conduct light. Now we know that there is no substance which is
transparent to light, that will carry electricity by metallic
conduction. I mean, of course, that there is no substance transparent to
light, and at the same time capable of carrying electricity by
electronic transmission. True, we have things like NaCl solutions in
ordinary H<sub>2</sub>O which will carry electricity, but here it's
ionic conduction. Even glass will carry electricity very well when hot;
when red hot, glass will carry enough electricity to melt it very
quickly. But again, glass is not a solid, but a viscous liquid, and it
is again carried by ionic conduction. Iron, copper, sodium, silver,
lead&mdash;all metals carry <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 194]</span>the
current by means of electron drift through the solid material. In such
cases we can see that no transparent substance conducts electricity.</p>

<p>&#8220;Similarly, the reverse is true. No substance capable of carrying
electricity by metallic conduction is transparent. All are opaque, if in
any thickness. Of course, gold is transparent when in leaf
form&mdash;but when it's that thin it won't conduct very much! The
peculiar condition we reach in the case of the invisible ship is
different. There the effects are brought about by the high frequency
impressed. But you get my point.</p>

<p>&#8220;Do you remember those wires that we saw leading to that little box
of the reflecting material? So perfectly reflecting it was that we
didn't see it. We only saw where it must be; we saw the light it
reflected. That was no doubt light-matter, a non-metal, and as such,
non-conductive to light. Like sulphur, an electric non-metal, it
reflected the base of which it was formed. Sulphur reflects the base of
which it was formed. Sulphur reflects electricity and&mdash;in the
crystalline form&mdash;passes light. This light-non-metal did the same
sort of thing; it reflected light and passed electricity. It was a
conductor.</p>

<p>&#8220;Now we have the things we need, the matter to disintegrate, and the
matter to hold the disintegrating material in. We have two different
types of matter. The rest is obvious&mdash;but decidedly not easy. They
have done it, though; and after the war is over, there should be many of
their machines drifting about in space waiting to give up their
secrets.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot Senior clapped his son on the back. &#8220;A fair foundation on which
to start, anyway. But I think it's time now that you got working on your
problem; and since I'm officially retired, I'm going downstairs. You
know I'm working in my lab on a method to increase the range and power
of your projector for the molecular motion field. Young Norris is
helping me, and he really has ideas. I'll show you our math later.&#8221;</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 195]</span></p>

<p>The party broke up, the three younger men staying in their own labs,
the older men leaving.</p>

<hr>

<h4>IV</h4>

<p>The three immediately set to work. At Arcot's suggestion, Wade and
Morey attacked the plate of crystal in an attempt to tear off a small
piece, on which they might work. Arcot himself went into the
televisophone room and put through a second call to the Tychos
Observatory, the great observatory that had so recently been established
on the frigid surface of the Moon. The huge mirror, twenty feet in
diameter, allowed an immense magnification, and stellar observations
were greatly facilitated, for no one bothered them, and the
&#8220;seeing&#8221; was always perfect.</p>

<p>However, the great distance was rather a handicap to the ordinary
televisophone stations, and all calls put through to the astronomers had
to be made through the powerful sending station in St. Louis, where all
interplanetary messages were sent and received, while that side of the
Earth was facing the station; and from Constantinople, when that city
faced the satellite. These stations could bridge the distance readily
and clearly.</p>

<p>For several minutes Arcot waited while connections were being made
with the Moon; then for many more minutes he talked earnestly with the
observer in this distant station, and at last satisfied, he hung up.</p>

<p>He had outlined his ideas concerning the black star, based upon the
perturbation of the planets; then he had asked them to investigate the
possibilities, and see if they could find any blotting out of stars by a
lightless mass.</p>

<p>Finally he returned to Morey and Wade who had been working on the
crystal plate. Wade had an expression of exasperation on his face, and
Morey was grinning broadly.</p>

<p>&#8220;Hello, Arcot&mdash;you missed all the fun! You should have seen
Wade's struggle with that plate!&#8221; The plate, during his absence, had
been twisted and bent, showing that it had <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
196]</span>undergone some terrific stresses. Now Wade began to make a
series of highly forceful comments about the properties of the plate in
language that was not exactly scientific. It had value, though, in that
it seemed to relieve his pent-up wrath.</p>

<p>&#8220;Why, Wade, you don't seem to like that stuff. Maybe the difficulty
lies in your treatment, rather than in the material itself. What have
you tried?&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Everything! I took a coronium hack saw that will eat through
molybdenum steel like so much cheese, and it just wore its teeth off. I
tried some of those diamond rotary saws you have, attached to an
electric motor, and it wore out the diamonds. That got my goat, so I
tried using a little force. I put it in the tension testing machine, and
clamped it&mdash;the clamp was good for 10,000,000 pounds&mdash;but it
began to bend, so I had to quit. Then Morey held it with a molecular
beam, and I tried twisting it. Believe me, it gave me real pleasure to
see that thing yield under the pressure. But it's not brittle; it merely
bends.</p>

<p>&#8220;And I can't cut it, or even get some shavings off the darned thing.
You said you wanted to make a Jolly balance determination of the
specific gravity, but the stuff is so dense you'd need only a tiny
scrap&mdash;and I can't break it loose!&#8221; Wade looked at the plate in
thorough disgust.</p>

<p>Arcot smiled sympathetically; he could understand his feelings, for
the stuff certainly was stubborn. &#8220;I'm sorry I didn't warn you fellows
about what you'd run into, but I was so anxious to get that call through
to the Moon that I forgot to tell you how I expected to make it
workable. Now, Wade, if you'll get another of those diamond-tooth rotary
saws, I'll get something that may help. Put the saw on the air motor.
Use the one made of coronium.&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade looked after the rapidly disappearing Arcot with raised
eyebrows, then, scratching his head, he turned and did as Arcot had
asked.</p>

<p>Arcot returned in about five minutes with a small handling machine,
and a huge magnet. It must have weighed nearly half a ton. This he
quickly connected to the heavy duty power lines of the lab. Now, running
the handling ma<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 197]</span>chine into position,
he quickly hoisted the bent and twisted plate to the poles of the
magnet, with the aid of the derrick. Then backing the handling machine
out of the way, he returned briskly to his waiting associates.</p>

<p>&#8220;Now we'll see what we will see!&#8221; With a confident smile
Arcot switched on the current of the big magnet. At once a terrific
magnetic flux was set up through the light-metal. He took the little
compressed-air saw, and applied it to the crystal plate. The smooth hiss
of the air deepened to a harsh whine as the load came on it, then the
saw made contact with the refractory plate.</p>

<p>Unbelievingly Wade saw the little diamond-edge saw bite its way
slowly but steadily into the plate. In a moment it had cut off a little
corner of the light-matter, and this fell with a heavy thud to the
magnet pole, drawn down by the attraction of the magnet and by
gravity.</p>

<p>Shutting off the magnet, Arcot picked up a pair of pliers and gripped
the little fragment.</p>

<p>&#8220;Whew&mdash;light-metal certainly isn't light metal! I'll bet this
little scrap weights ten pounds! We'll have to reduce it considerably
before we can use it. But that shouldn't be too difficult.&#8221;</p>

<p>By using the magnet and several large diamond faceplates they were
able to work the tough material down to a thin sheet; then with a heavy
press, they cut some very small fragments, and with these, determined
the specific gravity.</p>

<p>&#8220;Arcot,&#8221; Wade asked finally, &#8220;just how does the magnet
make that stuff tractable? I'm not physicist enough to figure out what
takes place inside the material.&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Magnetism worked as it did,&#8221; Arcot explained, &#8220;because
in this light-matter every photon is affected by the magnetism, and
every photon is given a new motion. That stuff can be made to go with
the speed of light, you know. It's the only solid that could be so
affected. This stuff should be able, with the aid of a molecular motion
beam, which will make all the photons move in parallel paths, to move at
the full speed of each photon&mdash;186,000 miles a second. The
<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 198]</span>tremendous speed of these individual
photons is what makes the material so hard. Their kinetic impulse is
rather considerable! It's the kinetic blow that the molecules of a metal
give that keeps other metal from penetrating it. This simply gives such
powerful impulse that even diamonds wouldn't cut it.</p>

<p>&#8220;You know that an iron saw will cut platinum readily, yet if both are
heated to say, 1600 degrees, the iron is a liquid, and the platinum very
soft&mdash;but now the platinum cuts through the iron!</p>

<p>&#8220;Heat probably won't have any effect on this stuff, but the action of
the magnet on the individual photons corresponds to the effect of the
heat on the individual atoms and molecules. The mass is softened, and we
can work it. At least, that's the way I figure it out.</p>

<p>&#8220;But now, Wade, I wish you'd see if you can determine the density of
the stuff. You're more used to those determinations and that type of
manipulation than we are. When you get through, we may be able to show
you some interesting results ourselves!&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade picked up a tiny chip of the light-metal and headed for his own
laboratory. Here he set up his Jolly balance, and began to work on the
fragment. His results were so amazing that he checked and rechecked his
work, but always with the same answer. Finally he returned to the main
lab where Arcot and Morey were busy at the construction of a large and
complicated electro-static apparatus.</p>

<p>&#8220;What did you find?&#8221; called out Arcot, as he saw Wade
reenter the room. &#8220;Hold your report a second and give us a hand here,
will you? I have a laboratory scale apparatus of the type the Kaxorians
used in the storage of light. They've known, ever since they began
working with them, that their machines would release the energy with
more than normal violence, if certain changes were made in them. That
is, the light condenser, the device that stored the photons so close to
each other, would also serve to urge them apart. I've made the necessary
changes, and now I'm trying to set up the apparatus to work on solid
light-mat<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 199]</span>ter. It was developed for
gaseous material, and it's a rather tricky thing to change it over. But
I think we've almost got it.</p>

<p>&#8220;Wade, will you connect that to the high frequency oscillator
there&mdash;no&mdash;through that counterbalanced condenser. We may have
to change the oscillator frequency quite a bit, but a variable condenser
will do that.</p>

<p>&#8220;Now, what results did you get?&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade shook his head doubtfully. &#8220;We all know it's amazing
stuff&mdash;and of course, it must be heavy&mdash;but still&mdash;well,
anyway, I got a density of 103.5!&#8221;</p>

<p>&#8220;Whewww&mdash;103.5! Lord! That's almost five times as heavy as the
heaviest metal hitherto known. There's about half a cubic foot of the
material; that would mean about 4000 pounds for the whole mass, or two
tons. No wonder we couldn't lift the plate!&#8221;</p>

<p>They stopped their work on the Kaxorian apparatus to discuss the
amazing results of the density test, but now they fell to again, rapidly
assembling the device, for each was a trained experimenter. With all but
the final details completed, Arcot stood back and surveyed their
handiwork.</p>

<p>&#8220;I think we'll have enough urge to cause disintegration right
here,&#8221; he said, &#8220;but I want to make sure, and so, before we set up
the case over it, I think we may as well put that big magnet in place,
and have it there to help in the work of disintegration, if need
be.&#8221;</p>

<p>At last the complete apparatus was set up, and the tiny bit of
light-matter they were to work on was placed on the table of a powerful
Atchinson projector microscope, the field of view being in the exact
center of the field of both the magnet and the coil. Carefully, then,
step by step, Arcot, Morey and Wade went over their work, checking and
rechecking.</p>

<p>&#8220;Well, we're ready,&#8221; said Arcot finally, as he placed the
projector screen in position and dimmed the lights in the room. A touch
of the switch, and the projection screen was illuminated with the
greatly enlarged image of the tiny scrap of light-metal.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 200]</span></p>

<p>With his hand on the switch, Arcot spoke to the other two. &#8220;I won't
say there's <i>no</i> danger, since we haven't done this before; and if
all the energy should be released at once, it'll blow the top out of the
building. But I'm reasonably sure that it will work safely. Any
objections?&#8221;</p>

<p>Wade shook his head, and Morey said: &#8220;I can't see any flaws in our
work.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot nodded, and unconsciously tensing, he closed the switch. This
put the powerful Arcot oscillator tubes into action, and the power was
ready for application.</p>

<p>Slowly he closed the rheostat and put the power into the coil. The
little sliver of metal on the slide seemed to throb a bit, and its
outline grew hazy; but at last, with full power on, the release was so
slow as to be imperceptible.</p>

<p>&#8220;Guess we need the magnet after all; I'll put it on this
time.&#8221;</p>

<p>He opened the coil circuit and closed the magnet circuit at half
voltage, then again he increased the current through the rheostat. This
time the plate throbbed quite violently, it took the appearance of a bit
of iodine. Dense vapors began pouring from it, and instantly those
vapors became a blindingly brilliant flood of light. Arcot had snapped
open the switch the moment he saw this display start, and it had had
little time to act, for the instant the circuit was opened, it subsided.
But even in that brief time, the light aluminum screen had suddenly
become limp and slumped down, molten! The room was unbearably hot, and
the men were half blinded by the intensity of the light.</p>

<p>&#8220;It works!&#8221; yelled Wade. &#8220;It works! That sure was hot,
too&mdash;it's roasting in here.&#8221; He flung open a window. &#8220;Let's have
some air.&#8221;</p>

<p>Arcot and Morey gripped hands with a broad grin. That display meant
that Earth and Venus would have space ships with which to fight space
ships. Reason enough for their joy.</p>

<p>Though they had made an unusual amount of progress already, there was
still a great deal of development work to be done. Fuller was needed,
Arcot decided, so he called <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 201]</span>the elder
Morey and requested his services if he could be spared from his present
work. He could, and would arrive later that day.</p>

<p>When Fuller appeared about mid-afternoon, he found the three friends
already at work on the development of a more compact apparatus than the
makeshift hookup used in making that first release mechanism.</p>

<p>&#8220;And so you can see,&#8221; said Arcot as he finished his
summary of their work to that point, &#8220;we still have quite a job ahead of
us. I'm now trying to find some data for you to work on, but I can tell
you this: We'll need a ship that has plenty of strength and plenty of
speed. There will be the usual power plant, of course; the generators,
the power-tube board, and the electro-magnetic relays for the regular
molecular motion controls. Then, in addition, we must have controls for
the ray projector, though that must wait a while, for Dad is working on
a method of doubling our range.... Oh yes, the driving units will be
inside the ship now, for all our power will come from the energy of the
light-matter.&#8221;</p>

<p>They spent the next hour in discussing the manifold details involved
in the design of their space ship: the mechanism involved in
transferring the light-energy to the drivers; a means of warming the
ship in interstellar space; a main horizontal drive for forward and
backward motion as well as braking; three smaller vertical power units
to give them freedom of direction in climb or descent; other smaller
horizontal power units for turning and moving sideways.</p>

<p>The ships, they decided, must be capable of six or seven thousand
miles a second. They would need three types of ships: a small single-man
speedster, without bunk or living quarters, simply a little power plant
and weapon. Designed for speed and mobility, it would be very hard to
hit, and because of its own offensive power would be dangerous to the
enemy. They would need a fleet of mother ships&mdash;ships that would
hold both the speedsters and their pilots&mdash;say thirty to a cruiser.
There would also be some ten-man scouts, operating in the same manner as
the larger cruisers, but with a smaller fleet of speedsters dependent on
them.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 202]</span></p>

<p>&#8220;For defense,&#8221; Arcot concluded, &#8220;we'll have to depend on
armor as heavy as we can make and still remain within the bounds of
practical construction. I don't believe we'll be able to build up enough
mass to insulate against their negative catalysis ray. We'll have to
depend on mobility and offense.</p>

<p>&#8220;But now let's get back to work. I think, Fuller, that you might call
in the engineers of all the big aircraft and machine tool manufacturers
and fabricators, and have them ready to start work at once when the
plans are finally drawn up. You'd better get in touch with the Venerian
producers, too. Those new works in Sorthol, Kaxor, will certainly be
able to help a lot.</p>

<p>&#8220;I suppose the Interplanetary Patrol men will have something to say,
so they better be called in. Likewise the Venerian Council. Morey, maybe
your dad can handle some of this.&#8221;</p>

<p>As one they arose and set to work on their respective tasks&mdash;the
planning and building of the Earth-Venus war fleet.</p>

<hr>

<h4>V</h4>

<p>Despite their utmost endeavor and the hard work of the industrial
might of two worlds, it was nearly six weeks before the fleet had grown
to a thing of importance. The tests to which they subjected the tiny
speedsters had been more than satisfactory. They behaved wonderfully,
shooting about at terrific speed, and with all the acceleration a pilot
could stand. These speedsters were literally piloted projectiles, and
their amazing mobility made them a powerful arm of offense.</p>

<p>There came into being a special corp dubbed, oddly enough, the
&#8220;Rocket Squad&#8221;, a group of men who could stand plenty of
&#8220;G's&#8221;. This &#8220;Rocket Squad&#8221; was composed solely
of Terrestrians, for they were accustomed to the gravity of Earth and
could stand greater acceleration strains <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
203]</span>than could the Venerians. The pick of the Air Patrol formed the
nucleus of this new military organization; and in short order, so great
is the appeal of the new and novel, the cream of the young men of the
planet were competing for a place among the Rocketeers.</p>

<p>Each ship, both speedster and mother craft, was equipped with an
invisibility locator, a sensitive short-wave directional receiver, that
would permit the operator to direct his rays at invisible targets. The
ships themselves could not be made invisible, since they depended in
their very principle on the absorption of light-energy. If the walls of
every part of the ship were perfectly transparent, they could absorb no
energy at all, and they would still be plainly visible&mdash;even more
so than before! They must remain visible, but they could also force the
enemy to remain visible.</p>

<p>Each ten-man ship carried an old-fashioned cannon that was equipped
to hurl cannisters carrying the luminous paint. They decided that these
would have advantages, even if the invaders did not use invisibility,
for in space a ship is visible only because it reflects or emits light.
For this reason the ships were not equipped with any portholes except in
the pilot room and at the observation posts. No light could escape. To
reduce the reflection to the absolute minimum, the ships had each been
painted with a 99% absorptive black. In space they would be exceedingly
difficult targets.</p>

<p>The heating effect of the sun on the black pigment when near the
great star was rather disagreeably intense, and to cool the speedsters
they had installed molecular director power units, which absorbed the
heat and used the energy to drive the ship. Heaters offset the radiation
loss of the black surface when too far from the sun.</p>

<p>Each of the speedsters was equipped with a small machine-gun shooting
luminous paint bullets. One of these, landing on another craft, made it
visible for at least two hours, and since they could cover an area of
about thirty feet, they were decidedly effective.</p>

<p>It was found that ray practice was rather complicated. The government
had ranges set up in great mountain dis<span class="pagenum">[Pg.
204]</span>tricts away from any valuable property, but they soon found that
spatial warplay could not be carried on on Earth. The rays very quickly
demolished the targets, and in a short time made good progress toward
demolishing the mountains as well. The problem was solved by using the
barren surface of the moon and the asteroid belt beyond Mars as a
proving ground.</p>

<p>The ships were sent out in squadrons as fast as they could be
finished and the men could be brought together and trained. They were
establishing a great shield of ships across all that section of the
system whence the Nigrans had appeared, and they hoped to intercept the
next attack before it reached Earth, for they were certain the next
attack would be in full force.</p>

<p>Arcot had gone to the conference held on Venus with the other men who
had investigated the great wrecks, and each scientist had related his
view of things and had offered suggestions. Arcot's idea of the black
star was not very favorably received. As he later told Wade and Morey,
who had not gone, there was good reason for their objection to his idea.
Though the scientists were willing to admit that the invaders must have
come from a great distance, and they agreed that they lived in an
atmosphere of hydrogen, and judging from their pale skins, that they
were not used to the rays of a sun, they still insisted on the theory of
an outer planet of Sol.</p>

<p>&#8220;You remember,&#8221; explained Arcot, &#8220;several years ago there
was considerable discussion about the existence of a planet still
further out from the sun than Pluto. It is well known that there are a
number of irregularities in the orbits of Neptune and Pluto that can't
be caused by known planets, and an outer planet could have the necessary
mass and orbit to account for them.</p>

<p>&#8220;This attack from outer space was immediately taken as proof of that
theory, and it was very easily supported, too. My one good point that
stood for any length of time under their attacks was the fact that those
ships weren't developed in a year, nor a century, and that the chemical
constitution <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 205]</span>of the men was so
different. There were no new elements discovered, except the
light-matter, but they are rather wondering about the great difference
of earthly chemical constitution and the constitution of these
invaders.</p>

<p>&#8220;They had one argument that was just about enough to throw mine out,
though they pointed to the odds against the thing happening. You know,
of course, how planets are formed? They are the results of tidal action
on two passing suns.</p>

<p>&#8220;You can imagine two mighty stars careening through space and then
drawing slowly nearer, till at last they come within a few billion miles
of each other, and their gigantic masses reach out and bind them with a
mighty chain of gravity. Their titanic masses swing about each other,
each trying to pull free, and continue its path about the center of the
galactic system. But as their huge bulks come nearer, the chains that
bind them become stronger and stronger, and the tremendous pull of the
one gargantuan fire ball on the other raises titanic tides of flame.
Great streamers of gas shoot out, and all the space about is lighted by
the flaming suns. The pull of gravity becomes more and more intense, and
as the one circles the other, the tide is pulled up, and the mighty ball
of fire, which, for all its existence has been practically motionless as
far as rotation goes, begins to acquire a greater and greater rotational
speed as the tidal drag urges it on. The flames begin to reach higher
and higher, and the tides, now urged from the sun by centrifugal force,
rise into an ever greater crest, and as the swinging suns struggle to
break loose, the flaming gas is pulled up and up, and becomes a mighty
column of fire, a column that reaches out across
three&mdash;four&mdash;a dozen millions of miles of space and joins the
two stars at last, as stalactites and stalagmites grow together. A
flaming tie of matter joins them, two titanic suns, and a mighty rope of
fire binds them, while far mightier chains of gravity hold them
together.</p>

<p>&#8220;But now their original velocity reasserts itself, and having
spiraled about each other for who can say how
long<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 206]</span>&mdash;a year&mdash;a million
years seems more probable&mdash;but still only an instant in the life of
a star&mdash;they begin to draw apart, and the flaming column is
stretched out, and ever thinner it grows, and the two stars at last
separate. But now the gas will never fall back into the sun. Like some
giant flaming cigar it reaches out into space and it will stay thus, for
it has been set in rotation about the sun at such a speed as is needed
to form an orbit. The giant mass of gas is, however, too cool to
continue to develop energy from matter, for it was only the surface of
the sun, and cool. As it cools still further, there appear in it
definite condensations, and the beginnings of the planets are there. The
great filament that stretched from the sun to sun was cigar-shaped, and
so the matter is more plentiful toward the center, and larger planets
develop. Thus Jupiter and Saturn are far larger than any of the others.
The two ends are tapering, thus Earth is larger than Venus, which is
larger than Mercury, and Uranus and Neptune are both smaller than
Saturn, Pluto being smaller than either.</p>

<p>&#8220;Mars and the asteroids are hard to explain. Perhaps it is easier to
understand when we remember that the planets thus formed must
necessarily have been rotating in eccentric orbits when they were first
born, and these planets came too near the sun while gaseous, or nearly
so, and Mars lost much of its matter, while the other, which now exists
only as the asteroids, broke up.</p>

<p>&#8220;But now that other flaming star has retired, wandering on through
space. The star has left its traces, for behind it there are planets
where none existed before. But remember that it, too, must have planets
now.</p>

<p>&#8220;All this happened some 2,000 million years ago.</p>

<p>&#8220;But in order that it might happen, it requires that two stars pass
within the relatively short distance of a few billion miles of each
other. Space is not overcrowded with matter, you know. The density of
the stars has been compared with twenty tennis balls roaming about
8,000-mile sphere that the Earth fills up&mdash;twenty tennis balls in
some 270 billion cubic miles of space. Now imagine two of
those <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 207]</span>tennis balls&mdash;with plenty
of room to wander in&mdash;passing within a few yards of each other. The
chances are about as good as the chances of two stars passing close
enough to make planets.</p>

<p>&#8220;Now let us consider another possibility.</p>

<p>&#8220;The Black Star, as I told you, has planets. That means that it must
have thus passed close to another star. Now we have it coming close to
another sun that has been similarly afflicted. The chances of that
happening are inconceivably small. It is one chance in billions that the
planets will form. Two stars must pass close to each other, when they
have all space to wander about in. Then those afflicted stars separate,
and one of them passes close by a new star, which has thus been
similarly afflicted with that one chance in billions&mdash;well, that is
then a chance in billions of billions.</p>

<p>&#8220;So my theory was called impossible. I don't know but what it is.
Besides, I thought of an argument the other men didn't throw at me. I'm
surprised they didn't, too&mdash;the explanation of the strange chemical
constitution of these men of a solar system planet would not be so
impossible. It is quite possible that they live on a planet revolving
about the sun which is, nevertheless, a planet of another star. It is
quite conceivable to me that the chemical constitution of Neptune and
Pluto will be found to be quite different from that of the rest of our
planets. The two filaments drawn out from the suns may not have mingled,
though I think they did, but it is quite conceivable that, just before
parting, our sun tore one planet, or even two or three, from the other
star.</p>

<p>&#8220;And that would explain these strange beings.</p>

<p>&#8220;My other ideas were accepted. The agreed-on plan for the release of
energy, and the source of the power.&#8221; Arcot puffed on his pipe
meditatively for several moments, then stood up and stretched.</p>

<p>&#8220;Ho&mdash;I wish they'd let me go on active duty with the space
fleet! A scientific reputation can be an awful handicap at times,&#8221; he
grinned. He had been rejected very emp<span class="pagenum">[Pg.
208]</span>hatically when he had tried to enlist. The Interplanetary
governments had stated flatly that he was too important as a scientist
to be risked as a pilot of a space ship.</p>

<p>On two worlds the great construction plants were humming with
activity. Civilian production of all but the barest essentials had been
put aside for the duration of the emergency. Space ships were being
turned out at top speed, getting their fuel from the wrecks of the
invaders' cruisers. Each ship needed only a small amount of the
light-metal, for the energy content was tremendous. And those ships had
been gigantic.</p>

<p>Already there was a fleet of speedsters and mother ships out there in
space, and with every passing hour others left the home planets, always
adding to the fighting force that was to engage the attackers deep in
space, where no stray ships might filter through to destroy the cities
of Earth or Venus. Assembly lines were now turning out ships so rapidly
that the training of their operators was the most serious problem. This
difficulty had finally been overcome by a very abbreviated training
course in the actual manipulation of the controls on the home planets,
and subsequent training as the squadrons raced on their outward
courses.</p>

<p>It was soon decided that there must be another service beside that of
the ordinary ships. One plant was devoted to making huge interstellar
liners. These giants, made on Venus, were nearly a quarter of a mile
long, and though diminutive in comparison with the giant Nigran ships,
they were still decidedly large. Twelve of these could be completed
within the next month, it was found; and one was immediately set aside
as an officers' headquarters ship. It was recognized that the officers
must be within a few hundred thousand miles of the actual engagements,
for decisions would have to be made without too much loss of time in the
transmission of reports.</p>

<p>The ship must not be brought too near the front lest the officers be
endangered and the entire engagement lost for want of the organizing
central headquarters. The final solution had been the huge central
control ship.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 209]</span></p>

<p>The other large vessels were to be used to carry food and supplies.
They were not to enter the engagement, for their huge size would make
them as vulnerable to the tiny darting mites of space as the Nigran
ships had been to the Interplanetary Patrol. The little ships could not
conveniently stock for more than a week of engagement, then drop back to
these warehouses of space, and go forward again for action.</p>

<p>Throughout the long wait the officers of the Solarian forces
organized their forces to the limit of their ability, planning each move
of their attack. Space had been marked off into a great
three-dimensional map, and each ship carried a small replica, the
planets moving as they did in their orbits. The space between the
planets was divided off into definite points in a series of Cartesian
co-ordinates, the sun being the origin, and the plane of the elliptic
being the X-Y plane.</p>

<p>The OX line was taken pointing toward one of the brightest of the
fixed stars that was in the plane of the elliptic. The entire solar
system was thus marked off as had been the planets long ages before,
into a system of three dimensional latitude and longitude. This was
imperative, in order to assure the easy location of the point of first
attack, and to permit the entire fleet to come into position there. A
scattered guard was to remain free, to avoid any false attacks and a
later attack from a point millions of miles distant. Earth and Venus
were each equipped with gigantic ray projectors, mighty weapons that
could destroy anything, even a body as large as the Moon, at a distance
of ten thousand miles. Still, a ship might get through, and with the
death ray&mdash;what fearful toll might be exacted from a vast city such
as Chicago&mdash;with its thirty millions! Or Karos, on Venus, with its
fifteen and one half millions!</p>

<p>The tension became greater and greater as with each passing day the
populace of two worlds awaited the call from the far-flung guard. The
main bulk of the fleet had been concentrated in the center of their
great spherical shell of ships. They could only wait&mdash;and
watch&mdash;and prepare! Hundreds of miles apart, yet near enough so
that no ship <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 210]</span>except perhaps a one-man
craft could pass them undetected; and behind them were ships with
delicate apparatus that could detect any foreign body of any size
whatever within a hundred thousand miles of them.</p>

<p>The Solar System was prepared to repel boarders from the vast sea of
space!</p>

<hr>

<h4>VI</h4>

<p>Taj Lamor gazed down at the tremendous field below him. In it lay
close packed a great mass of ships, a concourse of Titans of Space,
dreadnoughts that were soon to set out to win&mdash;not a nation, not
even a world, but to conquer a solar system, and to win for their owners
a vast new sun, a sun that would light them and heat them for long ages
to come.</p>

<p>Momentarily Taj Lamor's gaze followed the retreating figure of Tordos
Gar, the Elder; a figure with stooped shoulders and bowed head. His
quiet yet vibrant parting words still resounded in his ears:</p>

<p>&#8220;Taj Lamor, remember what I tell you. If you win this awful
war&mdash;you lose. As will our race. Only if you lose will you
win.&#8221;</p>

<p>With a frown Taj Lamor stared down at the vast metal hulls glistening
softly in the dull light of far-off stars, the single brightly beaming
star that was their goal, and the dim artificial lighting system. From
the distance came to him the tapping and humming of the working machines
below as they strove to put the finishing touches to the great
ships.</p>

<p>He raised his eyes toward the far-off horizon, where a great yellow
star flamed brilliantly against the black velvet of space. He thought of
that planet where the sky had been blue&mdash;an atmosphere of such
intensity that it colored the sky!</p>

<p>Thoughtfully he gazed at the flaming yellow point.</p>

<p>He had much to consider now. They had met a
new <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 211]</span>race, barbarians in some ways,
yet they had not forgotten the lessons they had learned; they were not
decadent. Between his eon-old people and their new home stood these
strange beings, a race so young that its age could readily be counted in
millennia, but withal a strong, intelligent form of life. And to a race
that had not known war for so many untold ages, it was an unthinkable
thing that they must kill other living, intelligent beings in order that
they might live.</p>

<p>They had no need of moving, Tordos Gar and many others had argued;
they could stay where they were forever, and never find any need for
leaving their planet. This was the voice of decadence, Taj Lamor told
himself; and he had grown to hate that voice.</p>

<p>There were other men, men who had gone to that other solar system,
men who had seen vast oceans of sparkling water, showering from their
ruffled surfaces the brilliant light of a great, hot sun. They had seen
towering masses of mountains that reached high into the blue sky of a
natural atmosphere, their mighty flanks clothed with green growth;
natural plants in abundance.</p>

<p>And best of all, they had fought and seen action, such as no member
of their race had known in untold ages. They knew Adventure and
Excitement, and they had learned things that no member of their ancient
race had known for millennia. They had learned the meaning of advancement
and change. They had a new ardor, a new strength, a new emotion to drive
them, and those who would have held them back became enthusiasts
themselves. Enthusiasm may be contagious, but the spirit of their
decadence was rapidly failing before this new urge. Here was their last
chance and they must take it; they would!</p>

<p>They had lost many men in that battle on the strange world, but their
race was intelligent; they learned quickly, the small ships had been
very hard targets, while their big ships were too easy to strike. They
must have small ships, yet they must have large ships for cargo, and for
the high speed driving apparatus. The small ships were
not <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 212]</span>able to accelerate to the
terrific speed needed. Once their velocity had been brought up to the
desired value, it was easy to maintain it with the infinitely small
friction of space as the only retarding force; one atom per cubic inch
was all they must meet. This would not hold them up, but the great
amount of fuel and the power equipment needed to accelerate to the
desired speed could not be packed into the small ship. Into the vast
holds of the huge ships the smaller ones were packed, long shining rows
of little metal projectiles. Tiny they were, but they could dart and
twist and turn as swiftly as could the ships they had met on that other
world&mdash;tiny ships that flashed about with incredible suddenness, a
target that seemed impossible to hit. These ships would be a match for
those flashing motes of the Yellow Sun. Now it might be that their great
transport and battle ships could settle down to those worlds and arrange
them for their own people!</p>

<p>And they had discovered new weapons, too. One of their mightiest was
a very old apparatus, one that had been forgotten for countless ages. A
model of it was in existence in some forgotten museum on a deserted
planet, and with it long forgotten tomes that told of its principles,
and of its consequences. Invisibility was now at their command. It was
an ancient weapon, but might be exceedingly effective!</p>

<p>And one other. They had developed a new thing! They had not learned
of it in books, it was their invention! They did not doubt that there
were other machines like it in their museums, but the idea was original
with them. It was a beam of electrical oscillatory waves, projected with
tremendous energy, and it would be absorbed by any conductor. They could
melt a ship with this!</p>

<p>And thus that great field had been filled with Giants of Space! And
in each of these thousand great warships there nestled three thousand
tiny one-man ships.</p>

<p>Here was a sight to inspire any race!</p>

<p>Taj Lamor watched as the last of the working machines dragged its
slow way out of the great ships. They were finished! The men were
already in them, waiting to start, <span class="pagenum">[Pg.
213]</span>and now there was an enthusiasm and an activity that had not
been before; now the men were anxious to get that long journey completed
and to be there, in that other system!</p>

<p>Taj Lamor entered his little special car and shot swiftly down to the
giant cruisers. He stepped out of his little craft and walked over to
the tube conveyor ready for the trip to the nose of the great vessel.
Behind him attendants quickly moved his car to a locked cradle berth
beside long rows of similar vehicles.</p>

<p>A short while later those who were to remain on the dark planet saw
the first of the monsters of space rise slowly from the ground and leap
swiftly forward; then as methodically as though released by automatic
machinery, the others leaped in swift pursuit, rushing across half a
world to the tremendous space lock that would let them out into the
void. In a long, swift column they rushed on. Then one at a time they
passed out into the mighty sea of space. In space they quickly formed
and set out.</p>

<p>As though by magic, far to the left of their flight, there suddenly
appeared a similar flight of giant ships, and then to the right, and
above them, another seemed to leap out of nothingness as the ships of
other planets came into sight. Quickly they formed a vast cone about
their leader's ship, a protecting screen, yet a powerful offensive
formation.</p>

<p>Endlessly, it seemed, they sped on through the darkness. Then as the
yellow star flamed brighter and brighter before them, they slowed their
ships till the small fliers could safely be released into space.</p>

<p>Like a swarm of insects flying about giant birds of space the little
ships circled the mighty masses of the battle cruisers. So huge were
they, that in the combined mass of the fleet there rested sufficient
gravitational attraction to force the little fliers to form orbits about
them. And so they sped on through the void, the vast conical fleet with
its slowly circling belt of little ships. A fleet whose counterpart had
never entered the Solar System.</p>

<p>It was well beyond the orbit of Pluto that the first
of <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 214]</span>the Solarian scouts detected the
approaching invasion fleet. The tension that had gripped Earth and Venus
and their guardian ships for so long a time suddenly snapped; and like a
great machine set into sudden motion, or a huge boulder, balanced, given
the last push that sends it spinning with destructive violence down a
slope, the fleet went into action.</p>

<p>It was merely a little scout, a ten-man cruiser, that sent in the
message of attack, and then, upon receiving headquarters' permission,
went into action. Some of the tacticians had wanted to try to get the
entire fleet into battle range for a surprise attack in power; but
others felt that this could not possibly succeed. Most important, they
decided, was the opportunity of learning if the invaders had any new
weapons.</p>

<p>The Nigrans had no warning, for a ten-man cruiser was invisible to
them, though the vast bulk of their own ships stood out plainly, lighted
by a blazing sun. No need here to make the sun stand still while the
battle was finished! There was no change out here in all time! The first
intimation of attack that the Nigrans had was the sudden splitting and
destruction of the leading ship. Then, before they could realize what
was happening, thirty-five other destructive molecular motion beams were
tearing through space to meet them! The little ten-man cruiser and its
flight of speedsters was in action! Twenty-one great ships crumpled and
burst noiselessly in the void, their gases belching out into space in a
great shining halo of light as the sun's light struck it.</p>

<p>Unable to see their tiny enemies, who now were striking as swiftly,
as desperately as possible, knowing that death was practically certain,
hoping only to destroy a more equal number of the giants, they played
their beams of death about them, taking care to miss their own ships as
much as possible.</p>

<p>Another ship silently crumpled, and suddenly one cruiser right in the
line of the flight was brought to a sudden halt as all its molecules
were reversed. The ships be<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 215]</span>hind it,
unable to stop so suddenly, piled up on it in chaotic wreckage! A vast
halo of shining gas spread out fifty thousand miles about, blinding
further the other ships, the radiance about them making it impossible to
see their tiny enemies.</p>

<p>Now other of the Solarian ships were coming swiftly to the attack.
Suddenly a combination of three of the ten-man cruisers stopped another
of the great ships instantaneously. There was another soundless crash,
and the giant mass of wreckage that heaped suddenly up glowed dully red
from the energy of impact.</p>

<p>But now the little ships of the invaders got into action. They had
been delayed by the desperate attempts of the dreadnaughts to wipe out
their enemies with the death rays, and they could not cover the great
distances without some delay.</p>

<p>When a battle spreads itself out through a ten-thousand mile cube of
space&mdash;through a thousand billion cubic miles of space&mdash;it is
impossible to cover it instantaneously with any machine.</p>

<p>Already nearly a hundred and fifty of the giant liners had gone into
making that colossal mass of junk in space. They must protect the
remaining cruisers! And it was that flight of small ships that did
protect them. Many of the Solarians went down to death under their rays.
The death rays were exceedingly effective, but the heat rays were not
able to get quite as long a range, and they were easily detected by the
invisibility locators, which meant certain destruction, for a molecular
motion ray would be there in moments, once they had been located.</p>

<p>The main fleet of the Solar System was already on its way, and every
moment drew closer to this running battle, for the great ships of the
Nigrans had, although they were entering the system cautiously, been
going at a very high speed, as interplanetary speeds are measured. The
entire battle had been a running encounter between the two forces. The
Solarian force, invisible because of its small size, was certainly
getting the better of the encounter thus far, but now that the odds were
changing, now that the small <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 216]</span>ships
had come into the fray, engaging them at close range, they were not
having so easy time of it.</p>

<p>It would be many hours before the full strength of the Solarian fleet
could be brought to bear on the enemy. They were not able to retire and
await their arrival, for they <i>must</i> delay the Nigran fleet. If
even one of those great ships should safely reach the two planets behind
them&mdash;!</p>

<p>But within a half hour of the original signal, the Rocket Squad had
thrown itself into the battle with a fervor and abandon that has given
that famous division a name that will last forever.</p>

<p>The small fliers of the Nigrans were beginning to take an appalling
toll in the thinning ranks of the Solarians. The coming of the Rocket
Squad was welcome indeed! They were able to maneuver as swiftly as the
enemy; the speedsters were harder to spot than the Solarian ten-man and
thirty-man boats. The Solarian speedsters were even smaller than the
comparable Nigran craft, and some of these did a tremendous amount of
damage. The heat ray was quite ineffective against the ten-man ships,
even when working at full capacity, when produced by the small
generators of the Nigran one-man boats. The cruisers could absorb the
heat and turn it into power faster than the enemy could supply it. Beams
from the monster interstellar liners were another matter, of course.</p>

<p>But the one-man speedsters had a truly deadly plan of attack against
the liners. The plan was officially frowned upon because of the great
risks the pilots must take. They directed their boats at one of the
monster ships, all the power units on at full drive. As close to target
as possible the man jumped from his ship, clothed, of course, in an
altitude suit equipped with a radio transmitter and receiver.</p>

<p>Death rays could not stop the speedsters, and with their momentum,
the invaders could not make it less deadly with their heat beam, for,
molten, it was still effective. A projectile weighing twenty-two tons,
moving a hundred miles a second, can destroy anything man can lift off a
planet! Their very speed made it impossible to dodge them,
and <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 217]</span>usually they found their mark. As
for the risk, if the Solarian forces were victorious, the pilots could
be picked up later, provided too long a time had not elapsed!</p>

<p>In the midst of the battle, the Solarians began to wonder why the
Nigran fleet was decreasing so rapidly&mdash;certainly they had not
caused all that damage! Then suddenly they found the answer. One of
their ships&mdash;then another&mdash;and another fell victim to a pale
red ray that showed up like a ghostly pillar of luminosity coming from
nowhere and going nowhere! The answer? The invaders' ships were becoming
invisible! The invisibility detectors were being overloaded now, and the
hunt was hard, while the Nigrans were slipping past them and silently
destroying Solarian ships! The molecular motion rays were quite
effective on an invisible ship&mdash;once it had been found. They were
destroying the Nigrans as rapidly as they were being destroyed, but they
were letting some of them slip past! The luminous paint bombs and
bullets were now called into play. All enemy ships were shot at with
these missiles, and invisibility was forestalled.</p>

<p>At long last the dark bulk of the main fleet approached, a scarcely
visible cloud of tiny darting metal ships. The battle so far had been a
preliminary engagement. The huge ships of the Nigrans were forced to
stop their attack, and releasing the last of the fliers, to retire to a
distance, protected by a screen of small ships, for they were helpless
against the Solarian speedsters. Invisibility fell into disfavor, too,
now that there were plenty of Solarian ships, for the Nigrans were more
conspicuous when invisible than when visible. The radio detector could
pick them out at once.</p>

<p>The entire Nigran fleet was beginning to reveal the disorder and
uncertainty that arose from desperation, for they were cornered in the
most undesirable position possible. They were outside the Solarian
fleet, and their ships were lighted by the glare of the sun. The
defenders, on the other hand, were in such a position that the enemy
could see only the &#8220;night&#8221; side of them&mdash;the shadowed
side&mdash;and, as there was no air to diffuse the light, they were
exceedingly hard <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 218]</span>to find. In the
bargain, the radium paint was making life for the Nigrans a brief and
flitting thing!</p>

<p>The invaders began to pay an awful toll in this their first real
engagement. They lacked the necessary power to cover the entire Solarian
fleet with their death rays, and their heat weapons were of little help.
The power of the small ships did not count for much&mdash;and the big
liners could not use their weapons effectively for their small fliers
must be between them and their adversary. Despite this, however, the
Nigrans so greatly outnumbered the Earth-Venus forces that it looked as
though a long and costly war lay ahead.</p>

<p>At last the Solarian generals tried a ruse, a ruse they hoped would
work on these beings; but they who never before had to plan a war in
space, were not sure that their opponents had not had experience in the
art. True, the Nigrans hadn't revealed any especially striking
generalship&mdash;had, in fact, committed some inexcusable
blunders&mdash;but they couldn't be sure. Though they didn't know it,
the Solarians had the advantage of thousands of years of planetary
warfare to rely on. This stood them in good stead now.</p>

<p>The Nigrans were rallying rapidly. To their surprise, the forces of
the Solarians were dwindling, and no matter how desperately this remnant
fought, they could not hold back the entire force of the Nigran fliers.
At last it appeared certain that the small ships could completely engage
the Solarian fleet!</p>

<p>Quickly the giant cruisers formed a great dense cone of attack, and
at a given signal, the fliers cleared a hole for them through the great
disc-shaped shield of the defenders. And with all their rays fanned out
in a 100% overlap ahead of them, the Nigran fleet plunged through the
disc of ships at close to four hundred miles per second. They broke
through&mdash;were on their way to the unprotected planets!</p>

<p>The Solarian ships closed the gap behind them, and eighteen of the
giant ships burst into wreckage as powerful beams found them, but for
the most part the remnant of the defending forces were far too busy with
the fliers to attack the large ships. Now, as the monster engines of
de<span class="pagenum">[Pg. 219]</span>struction raced on toward the
planets still approximately two billion miles away, they knew that, far
behind them, their fliers were engaging the Solarians. They had left
their guard&mdash;but the guard was keeping the enemy occupied while
they were free to drive in!</p>

<p>Then from nowhere came the counterattack! Nearly five thousand
thirty-man ships of Earth and Venus, invisible in the darkness of space,
suddenly leaped into action as the dreadnoughts sped past. Their
destroying rays played over the nigh-helpless giants, and the huge ships
were crumbling into colossal derelicts. With the last of their guard
stripped from them, they fell easy prey to the attackers. Faster than
they could keep count they were losing their warships of space!</p>

<p>The ruse had worked perfectly! Nearly all of the ten-man and one-man
ships had been left behind them in the original disc, while all the
thirty-man light cruisers, and a few hundred each of the ten-man and
one-man crafts sped away to form a great ring twenty thousand miles
farther back. The Nigran fleet had flown blindly into the ambush.</p>

<p>There was only one thing left for them to do. They were defeated.
They must return to their far-off black star and leave the Solarians in
possession of their worlds. For all battle purposes their great force
was nearly wiped out, only the fliers remained in force; and these could
no longer be carried in the remnant of the great liners. Swiftly they
fell back, passing again through the disc, losing thirty more vessels,
then raced swiftly away from the fleet of their enemies.</p>

<p>The Solarians, however, were not content. Their ships were forming in
a giant hollow cylinder, and as the sphere of the Nigrans retreated,
their beams playing behind them, the cylinder moved forward until it
surrounded them, and they raced together toward the distant lightless
sun. The Solar end of the cylinder swiftly closed, blocked by a group of
huge ships which had taken no visible part in the battle. The Nigrans
had stopped using their rays; and the
Solarians <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 220]</span>followed in armed
readiness, not molesting as long as they were not molested.</p>

<p>Many days this strange flight lasted, till at last the great yellow
sun, Sol, had faded in the distance to an unusually brilliant star.
Then, suddenly visible out of the darkness, a strange black world loomed
ahead, and the Nigran ships settled swiftly toward it. Through the
airlocks the great liners settled to their planet. No action was taken
so long as the Solarian ships were not menaced, but for eight long
months the darting ships hung above the four englobed worlds of
Nigra.</p>

<p>Then at last the astronomers of Earth and Venus sent through the
billions of miles of ether their message of safety. The guard could
return home, for the sun they had been guarding would soon be too far
from Earth or Venus to make any attack logical. Despite this, for years
to come the fleet would guard the rim of the System, just to be sure;
but it appeared that the suns had passed, never again to meet.</p>

<p>A strange thing had happened during the passing of the stars. Pluto
no longer circled Sol; it had been captured by Nigra! The great fleet
returned to a changed Solar system. Sol was still at its center, but
there were now ten planets, including two new ones that the sun had
captured from Nigra in return for Pluto; and all the planets had shifted
a bit in their orbits.</p>

<p>What the ultimate effect on the planets will be, we cannot say as
yet. The change thus far is certainly not very great, though a somewhat
warmer climate exists now on Earth, and it is a bit cooler on Venus. The
long-range difference, however, will be exceedingly interesting.</p>

<p>The Solar System has just passed through an experience which is
probably unique in all the history of the mighty nebula of which our sun
is an infinitesimal part. The chances that one star, surrounded by a
system of planets, should pass within a hundred billion miles of another
star, similarly accompanied, was one in billions of billions. That both
systems should have been inhabited by intelligent races&mdash;</p>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 221]</span></p>

<p>It is easy to understand why the scientists could not believe Arcot's
theory of attack from another sun until they had actually seen those
other worlds.</p>

<p>In that war between two solar systems we learned much and lost much.
Yet, in all probability we gained more than we lost, for those two
new-old planets will mean tremendous things to us. Already scientists
are at work in the vast museums and ancient laboratories that are on
them, and every day new things are being discovered. We lost many men,
but we saved our worlds, and we learned many invaluable secrets from the
invaders. In addition, we have but scratched the surface of a science
that is at least a thousand million years old!</p>

<hr>

<p><span class="pagenum">[Pg. 222]</span></p>

<h3>EPILOGUE</h3>

<p>Taj Lamor looked out across the void of space toward a fading point
of yellow light. Far in the distance it glowed, and every second moved
it many more miles farther from him. They had lost their struggle for
life and a new sun, he had thought when he turned back, defeated, from
that distant sun. But time had brought new hope.</p>

<p>They had lost many men in that struggle, and their dwindling
resources had been strained to the limit, but now there was hope, for a
new spirit had been born in their race. They had fought, and lost, but
they had gained a spirit of adventure that had been dormant for millions
of years.</p>

<p>Below him, in the great dim mass that was their city, he knew that
many laboratories were in the full swing of active work. Knowledge and
its application were being discovered and rediscovered. New uses were
being found for old things, and their daily life was changing. It was
again a race awake, rejuvenated by a change!</p>

<p>As the great sea of yellow fire that was that strange sun had faded
behind their fleeing ships, leaving their dead planets still circling a
dead sun, he had thought their last chance was gone forever. But hope
had reawakened, with the birth of new ideas, new ways of doing
things.</p>

<p>Tordos Gar had been right! They had lost&mdash;but in the losing,
they had won!</p>

<p>Taj Lamor shifted his gaze to a blazing point of light, where a
titanic sea of flame was burning with a
brilliance <span class="pagenum">[Pg. 223]</span>and power that, despite
the greater distance, made the remote yellow sun seem pale and dim. The
blue-white glow told of a monster star, a star far brighter than the one
they had just left. It had become the brightest star in their heavens.
On their ancient star charts it was listed as a red giant, named
Tongsil-239-e, which meant it was of the fifth magnitude and very
distant. But in the long ages that had passed since it was classified,
it had become a mighty sun&mdash;a star in its prime.</p>

<p>How were they to reach it? It was eight and one half light years
away!</p>

<p>Their search for the force that would swing a world from its orbit
had at last been successful. The knowledge had come too late to aid them
in their fight for the yellow sun, but they might yet use it&mdash;they
might even tear their planets from their orbits, and drive them as free
bodies across the void. It would take ages to make the trip&mdash;but
long ages had already passed as their dark planet swung through the
void. What difference would it make if they were or were not accompanied
by a dead star?</p>

<p>True, the star that was now their goal was a double star; their
planets could not find orbits about it, but they might remedy
that&mdash;they could tear one star free and hurl it into space, making
the remaining sun suitable for their use.</p>

<p>But they <i>would</i> escape this dead sun.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
