<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="book-2" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-2-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>Suddenly the blazing sun was gone and they were floating in a vast world of rolling mists⁠—mists that brushed the car with tiny clicks, which, with the millions of particles that struck simultaneously, merged into a steady roar.</p>
				<p>“Ice⁠—ice clouds!” Morey exclaimed.</p>
				<p>Arcot nodded. “We’ll drop below the clouds; they’re probably miles deep. Look, already they’re changing⁠—snow now⁠—in a moment it will be water⁠—then it’ll clear away and we’ll actually see Venus!”</p>
				<p>For ten miles⁠—an endless distance it seemed⁠—they dropped through clouds utterly impenetrable to the eye. Then gradually the clouds thinned; there appeared brief clear spots, spots into which they could see short distances⁠—then here and there they caught glimpses of green below. Was it water⁠—or land?</p>
				<p>With a suddenness that startled them, they were out of the clouds, shooting smoothly and swiftly above a broad plain. It seemed to stretch for endless miles across the globe, to be lost in the far distance to east and west; but to the north they saw a low range of hills that rose blue and misty in the distance.</p>
				<p>“Venus! We made it!” Morey cried jubilantly. “The first men ever to leave Earth⁠—I’m going to start the old sender and radio back home! Man⁠—look at that stretch of plain!” He jumped to his feet and started across the control room. “Lord⁠—I feel like a ton of lead now⁠—I sure am out of condition for walking after all that time just floating!”</p>
				<p>Arcot raised a restraining hand. “Whoa⁠—wait a minute there, Morey⁠—you won’t get anything through to them now. The Earth is on the other side of Venus⁠—it’s on the night side, remember⁠—and we’re on the day side. In about twelve hours we’ll be able to send a message. In the meantime, take the controls while I make a test of the air here, will you?”</p>
				<p>Relieved of the controls, Arcot rose and walked down the corridor to the power room where the chemical laboratory had been set up. Wade had already collected a dozen samples of air, and was working on them.</p>
				<p>“How is it⁠—what have you tested for so far?” asked Arcot.</p>
				<p>“Oxygen and <abbr class="compound">CO<sub>2</sub></abbr>. The oxygen is about twenty-two percent, or considering the slightly lower air pressure here, we will have just about the right amount of oxygen. The <abbr class="compound">CO<sub>2</sub></abbr> is about one-tenth of one percent. The atmosphere is OK for terrestrial life apparently; that mouse there is living quite happily. Whatever the other seventy-five percent or so of diluting gas is, I don’t know, but it isn’t nitrogen.”</p>
				<p>Briefly Arcot and Wade discussed the unusual atmosphere, finally deciding that the inert gas was argon.</p>
				<p>“No great amount of nitrogen,” Arcot concluded. “That means that life will have a sweet time extracting it from the air⁠—but wherever there is life, it finds a way to do the impossible. Test it more accurately, will you⁠—you try for nitrogen and I’ll try the component inert gasses.”</p>
				<p>They ran the analyses rapidly, and in a very short time⁠—less than an hour⁠—their results stood at 23 percent oxygen, .1 percent carbon dioxide, 68 percent argon, 6 percent nitrogen, 2 percent helium, 5 percent neon, .05 percent hydrogen, and the rest krypton and xenon apparently. The analyses of these inert gasses had to be done rather roughly in this short time, but it was sufficient to balance fairly accurately.</p>
				<p>The two chemists reported back to the control cabin.</p>
				<p>“Well, we’ll be able to breathe the atmosphere of Venus with ease. I believe we can go on now. I have been surprised to see no water in sight, but I think I see my mistake now. You know the Mississippi has its mouth further from the center of the Earth than its source; it flows up hill! The answer is, of course, that the centrifugal force of the Earth’s spin impels it to flow that way. Similarly, I am sure now that we will find that Venus has a vast belt of water about the middle, and to the north and south there will be two great caps of dry land. We are on the northern cap.</p>
				<p>“We have the microphone turned way down. Let’s step up the power a bit and see if there are any sounds outside,” said Arcot and walked over to the power control switch. An instant later a low hum came from the loudspeaker. There was a light breeze blowing. In the distance, forming a dull background for the hum, there came a low rumbling that seemed punctuated now and then by a greater sound.</p>
				<p>“Must be a long way off,” said Arcot, a puzzled frown on his face. “Swing the ship around so we can see in what direction the sound is loudest,” he suggested.</p>
				<p>Slowly Morey swung the ship around on its vertical axis. Without a doubt, something off in the direction of the hills was making a considerable noise.</p>
				<p>“Arcot, if that’s a fight between two animals⁠—two of those giant animals that you said might be here⁠—I don’t care to get near them!” Fuller’s narrowed eyes strove to penetrate the haze that screened the low hills in the blue distance.</p>
				<p>The microphone was shut off while the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> shot swiftly forward toward the source of the sound. Quickly the hills grew, the blue mistiness disappearing, and the jagged mounds revealing themselves as bleak harsh rock. As they drew nearer they saw beyond the hills, intermittent flashes of brilliant light, heard shattering blasts of sound.</p>
				<p>“A thunderstorm!” Wade began, but Arcot interrupted.</p>
				<p>“Not so fast, Wade⁠—Fuller’s animal <em>is</em> there⁠—the only animal in all creation that can make a noise like that! Look through the telescope⁠—see those dots wheeling about there above the flashing lights? The only animal that can make that racket is man! There are men over there⁠—and they aren’t in a playful mood! Turn on the invisibility while we can, Morey⁠—and let’s get nearer!”</p>
				<p>“Look out⁠—here we go!” Morey began to close a tiny switch set in one side of the instrument panel⁠—then, before the relay below could move, he had flipped it back.</p>
				<p>“Here, you take it, Arcot⁠—you always think about two steps ahead of me⁠—you’re quicker and know the machine better anyway.”</p>
				<p>Quickly the two men exchanged places.</p>
				<p>“I don’t know about that, Morey,” said a voice from vacancy, for Arcot had at once thrown the ship into invisibility. “The longer we’re here, the more mistakes I see we made in our calculations. I see what put me off so badly on my estimate of the intelligence of life found here! The sun gives it a double dose of heat⁠—but also a double dose of other radiations⁠—some of which evidently speed up evolution. Anyway, we may be able to find friends here more quickly if we aid one side or the other in the very lively battle going on there. Before we go any further, what’s our decision?”</p>
				<p>“I think it is a fine idea,” said Fuller. “But which side are we to aid⁠—and what are the sides? We haven’t even seen them yet. Let’s go nearer and take a good look.”</p>
				<p>“Yes⁠—but are we going to join either side after looking?”</p>
				<p>“Oh, that’s unanimous!” said Wade, excitedly.</p>
				<p>The invisible ship darted forward. They sped past the barrier of low hills, and were again high above a broad plain. With a startled gasp, Arcot cut their speed. There, floating high in the air, above a magnificent city, was a machine such as no man had ever before seen! It was a titanic airplane⁠—monstrous, gargantuan, and every other word that denoted immensity. Fully three-quarters of a mile the huge metal wings stretched out in the dull light of the cloudy Venerian day; a machine that seemed to dwarf even the vast city beneath it. The roar of its mighty propellers was a rumbling thunder to the men in the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i>. From it came the flashing bursts of flame.</p>
				<p>On closer inspection, the watchers saw what seemed to be a swarm of tiny gnats flying about the mighty plane. They appeared to be attacking the giant as vainly as gnats might attack an eagle, for they could not damage the giant machine. The flashing bombs burst in blasts of yellow flame as harmlessly as so many firecrackers.</p>
				<p>All that mighty plane was covered with heavy metal plates, fully ten inches thick, and of metal so tough that when the powerful bombs hit it they made no impression, though they blasted tremendous craters in the soil below. From it poured a steady stream of bombs that burst with a great flash of heat and light, and in an instant the tiny planes they struck streaked down as incandescent masses of metal.</p>
				<p>Yet the giant seemed unable to approach the city⁠—or was it defending it? No, for it was from the city that the vainly courageous little ships poured out. But certainly it was not these ships that kept the titanic battleship of the air at bay!</p>
				<p>Tensely the men watched the uneven conflict. The rain of bombs continued, though all fell short of the city. But slowly around the metropolis there appeared an area of flaring, molten lava, and steadily this moved toward the beautiful buildings. Suddenly the battleship turned toward the city and made a short dash inward on its circling path. As though awaiting this maneuver, a battery of hissing, flaming swords of white light flashed upward, a few hundred feet from the ring of molten rock. As the titanic plane rolled, side-slipped out of the way, they passed, harmlessly, barely missing a monstrous wing.</p>
				<p>“Which?” Arcot demanded. “I say the city. No one should destroy anything so magnificent.”</p>
				<p>Not a dissenting voice was raised, so Arcot sent the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> nearer.</p>
				<p>“But what in the world can we do to that huge thing?” Fuller’s voice came eerily out of the emptiness. “It has perfect invulnerability through size alone.”</p>
				<p>There was sudden silence among the Terrestrials as one of the tiny planes darted forward and dove at full speed directly toward one of the giant’s propellers. There were fifty of these strung along each great wing. If enough of them could be destroyed, the plane must crash. There came a terrific crash⁠—a flare of light⁠—and splintered fragments of flaming wreckage plummeted down. Yet the mighty blades continued whirling as smoothly as ever!</p>
				<p>What could the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> do against the giant monoplane? Evidently Arcot had a plan. Under his touch their machine darted high into the sky above the great plane. There was a full mile between them when he released the sustaining force of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> and let it drop, straight toward the source of the battle⁠—falling freely, ever more and more rapidly. They were rushing at the mighty plane below at a pace that made their hearts seem to pause⁠—then suddenly Arcot cried out, “Hold on⁠—here we stop!”</p>
				<p>They seemed a scant hundred feet from the broad metal wings of the unsuspecting plane, when suddenly there was a tremendous jerk, and each man felt himself pressed to the floor beneath a terrific weight that made their backs crack with the load. Doggedly they fought to retain their senses; the blackness receded.</p>
				<p>Below them they saw only a mighty sea of roaring red flames⁠—a hell of blazing gas that roared like a score of bombs set off at once. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> was sitting down on her rocket jets! All six of the rocket tubes in the base of the ship had been opened wide, and streaming from them in a furious blast of incandescent gas, the atomic hydrogen shot out in a mighty column of gas at 3,500 degrees centigrade. Where the gas touched it, the great plane flared to incandescence; and in an immeasurable interval the fall of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> ended, and it rebounded high into the air. Arcot, struggling against the weight of six gravities, pulled shut the little control that had sent those mighty torches blasting out. An instant later they sped away lest the plane shoot toward the gas columns.</p>
				<p>From a safe distance they looked back at their work. No longer was the mighty plane unscathed, invulnerable, for now in its top gaped six great craters of incandescent metal that almost touched and coalesced. The great plane itself reeled, staggering, plunging downward; but long before it reached the hard soil below, it was brought into level flight, and despite many dead engines, it circled and fled toward the south. The horde of small planes followed, dropping a rain of bombs into the glowing pits in the ship, releasing their fury in its interior. In moments the beings manning the marauder had to a large extent recovered from the shock of the attack and were fighting back. In a moment⁠—just before the ship passed over the horizon and out of sight⁠—the Terrestrians saw the great props that had been idle, suddenly leap into motion, and in an instant the giant had left its attackers behind⁠—fleeing from its invisible foe.</p>
				<p>Under Arcot’s guidance the ship from Earth, still invisible, returned to the approximate spot where they had destroyed the invulnerability of the giant. Then suddenly, out of nothing, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> appeared. In an instant a dozen of the tiny two-man planes darted toward it. Just that they might recognize it, Arcot shot it up a bit higher with the aid of the keel rockets at one-third power. The typical reddish flame of atomic hydrogen, he knew, would be instantaneously recognizable.</p>
				<p>Little these planes were, but shaped like darts, and swifter than any plane of Earth. They shot along at 1,000 miles an hour readily, as Arcot soon found out. It was not a minute before they had formed a long line that circled the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Solarite</i> at minimum speed, then started off in the direction of the city. On impulse Arcot followed after them, and instantly the planes increased their velocity, swiftly reaching 1,000 miles per hour.</p>
				<p>The city they were approaching was an inspiring sight. Mighty towers swept graceful lines a half mile in the air, their brightly colored walls gleaming in rainbow hues, giving the entire city the aspect of a gigantic jewel⁠—a single architectural unit. Here was symmetry and order, with every unit in the city built around the gigantic central edifice that rose, a tremendous tower of black and gold, a full half mile in the air.</p>
				<p>The outer parts of the city were evidently the residential districts, the low buildings and the wide streets with the little green lawns showing the care of the individual owner. Then came the apartment houses and the small stores; these rose in gentle slopes, higher and higher, merging at last with the mighty central pinnacle of beauty. The city was designed as a whole, not in a multitude of individually beautiful, but inharmonious units, like some wild mixture of melodies, each in itself beautiful, but mutually discordant.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
