<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Three Against The Stars</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="foreword" epub:type="foreword">
			<h2>Three Against The Stars</h2>
			<p>A sky pirate armed with superior weapons of his own invention. …</p>
			<p>First contact with an alien race dangerous enough to threaten the safety of two planets. …</p>
			<p>The arrival of an unseen dark sun whose attendant marauders aimed at the very end of civilization in this Solar System. …</p>
			<p>These were the three challenges that tested the skill and minds of the brilliant team of scientist-astronauts Arcot, Wade, and Morey. Their initial adventures are a classic of science-fiction which first brought the name of their author, John W. Campbell, into prominence as a master of the inventive imagination.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p><em>John W. Campbell</em> first started writing in 1930 when his first short story, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">When the Atoms Failed</i>, was accepted by a science-fiction magazine. At that time he was twenty years old and still a student at college. As the title of the story indicates, he was even at that time occupied with the significance of atomic energy and nuclear physics.</p>
				<p>For the next seven years, Campbell, bolstered by a scientific background that ran from childhood experiments, to study at Duke University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, wrote and sold science-fiction, achieving for himself an enviable reputation in the field.</p>
				<p>In 1937 he became the editor of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Astounding Stories</i> magazine and applied himself at once to the task of bettering the magazine and the field of s-f writing in general. His influence on science-fiction since then cannot be underestimated. Today he still remains as the editor of that magazine’s evolved and redesigned successor, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Analog</i>.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
